Read Me First
Playbook
CHRONICLES OF EMPIRE & EXILE
Table of Contents
What’s in the Box..................................2
Learning Oath to Teach Later?..............5
Teaching Oath Right Now?...................5
Setup for the First Game.......................6
Who You Are, How to Win..................8
The Broad Strokes of Play...................10
The Actions.........................................12
Walkthrough — Chancellor.................18
Walkthrough — Red Exile...................20
Walkthrough — Blue Exile...................22
Walkthrough — Yellow Exile................24
A Few More Rules...............................26
Rules Questions...................................29
Ending Your First Game ....................29
Setup for Later Games........................30
Group Agreements..............................31
Weird Things About Oath..................32

What’s in the Box
Welcome to Oath! All the cards listed here are kept in packets, but do not open 
them yet! You’ll be told to open some during setup and some after your first game.
the map
The map of this land holds many site and denizen cards, the decks and banks of 
favor tokens you will take from as you play, and various tracks.
23 site cards
Sites are locations around the map 
you will travel to and campaign for.
198 denizen cards
Denizens are the peoples, places, 
and ideas of this land.
5 Vision cards
Visions are fresh ways to govern this 
land. You can win by completing one.
6 pawns, each of a different color
Your pawn, the character you’re playing, will travel from site to site, where you can 
muster warbands, trade for favor and secrets, and campaign against your enemies.
36 favor tokens
Favor represents your influence 
with this land’s various denizens.
20 secret tokens
Secrets represent your knowledge of 
ancient truths or well-cloaked lies.
94 warbands 
24 purple, 14 each of five colors
Warbands are your loyal followers that you’ll use 
to campaign against your enemies and rule sites.
!@~ 
10 attack dice, 6 defense dice, 
1 end die, and 8 track markers
These decide the fate of uncertain actions and track play. 
The dice are not limited by the amount in the box.
2 R

Chancellor board (double-sided)
One player will play the Chancellor, who rules 
this land. They hope to keep hold on power and 
pass on their authority to their descendants.
5 player boards (double-sided)
The other players begin as Exiles, leaders of subjugated 
peoples who seek to regain a voice in society. In play, they 
might become Citizens, which flips over their board.
 The Grand Scepter
You cannot use this if you took it this turn.
action: Peek in the Imperial Reliquary.
 action: Off er Citizenship to any Exile, 
or exile a Citizen except yourself. 
Grand Scepter relic card
The Chancellor starts with this relic, 
which gives them the power to turn Exiles 
into Citizens, and to exile Citizens.
20 relic cards
Relics are lost artifacts you can recover by calling in 
favors and whispering secrets. They grant amazing 
powers and contribute to winning in some ways.
Decadent
Careless
Greedy
traveling to a site in the 
Cradle from a site in the 
Provinces or Hinterland.
If you’re traveling to a site 
in the Hinterland, increase 
the Travel cost by 1 Supply.
You gain one more 
 
(even when trading for 
).
You must gain one less 
 
when trading for 
Draw two more cards. 
(Stop after a Vision as normal.)
You cannot search if you 
would spend more than 
2 Supply.
Citizenship off ers must promise exactly one relic from the Imperial Reliquary.
These cannot be taken with Campaign or Recover and do not add to victory goals.
Imperial Reliquary board 
The Imperial Reliquary holds many relics, 
which the holder of the Grand Scepter must 
promise when offering Citizenship to Exiles.
 
 
 
Banner of the Darkest Secret
This banner represents your mysterious aura 
that intrigues and seduces everyone, letting you 
search for denizens and Visions more easily.
Oathkeeper title 
The player who currently fulfills the Oathkeeper 
goal, shown below, holds this title. Holding this 
title long enough is one way to win the game.
 
Banner of the People’s Favor 
This banner represents the broad support you have 
in your mission from all around the land, letting 
you play and discard denizens more flexibly.
4 goal references 
Each game will have one Oathkeeper goal 
and one Successor goal, two ways to win 
the game, as shown by this reference.
action: Draw a relic. 
Take it or put it on the 
bottom of the relic deck.
Ancient Forge
6 edifice cards (double-sided)
At the end of the game, the winner might 
build an edifice, and some edifices on the map 
may fall into ruin, flipping the card.
R 3

Box Organizers and Play Aids
2 player aid sheets 
These references have card anatomies, 
descriptions of site powers, and a 
reference for the Campaign action.
Dec
Spend no Supp
traveling to a si
Cradle from a s
Provinces or Hi
If you’re travelin
in the Hinterlan
the Travel cost b
In the Chronicle, do not 
discard sites with any ^
 cards.
Forest Temple
Enemies of Ruined 
Temple’s ruler cannot 
play ^
 cards faceup.
Ruined Temple
 
 Sticky Fire 
 
 If you’re victorious, you may kill all the 
warbands in your enemy’s force. If you 
do, you must give them ^
 if able. 
6. Clean Up Relics
Pressgangs
You can muster on cards that 
already have ]
 or ]
 on them.
4. Add Six Cards from Archive
5. Remove Six Cards to Dispossessed
8. Rebuild Deck
All
Shuﬀ le together the winner’s relics and Reliquary, and 
stack these relics on the top of the relic deck.
Remaining
12 + 2V
15 + 3V
Remaining
Stack on...
Stack on...
7. Return World to Box
Barren Coast
▶
Wrestlers
+^[
if you sacriﬁ ce one 
warband in your force.
1. Vow an Oath
3. Clean Up Map
2. Oﬀ er Citizenship
Replace their warbands 
on map with winner’s...
Salt Flats
/
action: Take ]
 from 
any one favor bank.
Spirit Snare
At all sites except those ruled by the winner or with an intact ediﬁ ce, 
discard denizens, return relics and sites to their decks, and return ruined 
ediﬁ ces to the Archive.
action: Draw a relic. 
Take it or put it on the 
bottom of the relic deck.
Ancient Forge
Replace a denizen at site ruled by winner with 
an ediﬁ ce of matching suit from the Archive.
Flip a ruin at any site ruled by winner.
Repair ruined ediﬁ ce
Build new ediﬁ ce
Usurper or Visionary, then ﬂ ip your Oathkeeper to Usurper.
If the winner is an Exile, ﬂ ip all the Citizen boards to Exile, and they 
may oﬀ er Citizenship to any Exiles except those who just ﬂ ipped.
If you won with a Vision, you must choose the Oathkeeper goal matching your Vision.
If you won in any other way, choose any goal reference except the current one.
Chronicle Summary
The winner choose the goal for the next game.
—or—
The winner can build or repair one ediﬁ ce if they are the Chancellor or a 
Citizen. Each site can only hold one ediﬁ ce, whether intact or ruined.
Stack any cards at each site on it, then stack all the sites. 
When done, the ﬁ rst Cradle site should be at the top, and 
the last Hinterland site should be on the bottom.
Set aside all the Visions. Shuﬀ le the discard piles and losers’ advisers 
together, and put six random cards into the Dispossessed in the box.
Flip ediﬁ ces to ruins at sites not ruled by 
the winner. Discard all denizens there. 
Push sites with no ruins 
toward the Cradle to ﬁ ll up 
regions from top to bottom. 
Shuﬀ le together the relic deck and losers’ relics. Reﬁ ll sites 
that have fewer relics than they need from the relic deck.
Find the winner’s most common suit of adviser—if tied, the winner 
chooses. Add three cards of that suit from the Archive to the world 
deck, then two of the next clockwise suit as shown below, then one.
Most common adviser
Collect all the denizens on the table, shuﬀ le and split them. 
Shuﬀ le in the Visions, then stack the piles to rebuilt the deck.
Fill empty slots with facedown sites from the shuﬀ led site deck. 
Flip the top site in each region with no faceup sites.
To deck...
To deck...
To discard...
Recovering the People’s Favor 
always ﬂ ips it to the Mob side.
Hall of Mockery
To Archive...
Dispossessed
 
 
Stack on site...
Citizen
You win if the Chancellor would win but you 
have met your Successor goal.
You may exile yourself, unless you hold the Grand Scepter, 
by giving the holder of the Grand Scepter 
 equal to the number 
of warbands on your board plus your total number of 
. Once 
you exile yourself, end your Act Phase and refresh Supply to full.
among board, your site if Chancellor allows and 
you rule, and Imperial pawns there if they allow.
Refresh your Supply to match the Chancellor’s Supply.
action: Swap up to ﬁ ve denizens 
from the top of your region’s discard 
pile (skipping Visions) with random 
cards from the Dispossessed.
Fallen Spire
You may swap any number of 
denizens you draw with random 
cards from the Dispossessed.
Great Spire
 
 Cup of Plenty 
 
Spend no Supply if you’re trading with a 
card that matches any of your advisers .
 
 
 Book of Records 
 
 You must gain ^
 instead of 
 when you play to a site. 
 Skeleton Key 
 
action: If the Chancellor rules your 
site, peek at any one relic in the Imperial 
Reliquary, and you may take it.
Great Slum
Push sites with ruins 
toward the Hinterland to 
ﬁ ll from bottom to top.
Enemies of Ruined 
Temple’s ruler cannot 
play ^
 cards faceup.
Ruined Temple
River
Return all the pawns, warbands, 
favor, and secrets to the box.
1 Chronicle aid sheet 
This will help you tear down your 
game when you’re done, saving 
your world for your next play.
8 Archive dividers
You’ll use these to separate cards in the 
smaller section of the box once you finish 
your first game.
8 multiplier tokens 
These represent five secrets, which are 
not limited by the amount in the box.
1 world box 
You’ll use this to store the cards still on 
the map at the end of your game.
10 bandit tokens 
You can optionally put these on empty 
sites to help show bandits (page 27).
Pieces for the Clockwork Prince
The Clockwork Prince is an automated player that we recommend after your first game if 
you’re playing with one or two players. To learn more, read the Clockwork Prince rules sheet.
Clockwork Prince
Threat
Tactics
Caution
Relationships
–2
–1
±3
±2
±2
±
±
Turn Structure: 1. Assess Threat 2. Play One Card 3. Take Actions 4. Cleanup
Playing Cards
Ready to Fight?
Friends
#Actions
Unaligned
Conspirators
No Threat?
Warbands for Supply Check: 18+ (6), 17 to 11 (5), 10 to 4 (4), 3 to 0 (3)
Increase Caution each time the Prince is defeated while attacking.
Citizenship Off er: At the end of the Prince’s turn, if the Prince 
is not Oathkeeper, Exiles in turn order may peek at the bottom 
relic of the relic deck and may take it to become a Citizen.
Succession?
Oath?
Vision?
Draw 3 cards from the deck. 
Do not stop at Visions! 
Reveal all cards except Visions. Increase 
Tactics once per battle plan revealed. 
Play one card, as described in your 
Mind quadrant, to the topmost site 
in the Cradle, then Provinces, then 
Hinterland. Advance the matching 
relationship. Do not gain favor.
If this card cannot be played to any site, 
discard the card and gain 3 warbands.
Prince must have more 
warbands than Caution 
 + defending force + dice 
added by targets.
Tiebreaker
Always use 
the leftmost!
1 Clockwork Prince board & 
1 Princely Reliquary board 
These are on the backs of the Chancel-
lor and Imperial Reliquary boards.
The Clockwork Prince
The Clockwork Prince is an automated player that can replace 
the Chancellor or an Exile. We recommend it in games with 
one or two human players, but you can use it with more players.
Set up the game as normal, but do not deal starting cards to 
the Prince, and follow these steps:
Take the Clockwork Prince board (back of Chancellor board) 
and Mind sheet (back of Chronicle aid). Flip the Imperial 
Reliquary to its Princely Reliquary side (back of Reliquary 
board).
If the Prince is an Exile, take an unused Exile board, and 
the Chancellor takes a Citizen board and covers their 
Supply track with the Princely Reliquary board.
Place the 6 relationship markers on the matching suit 
spaces in the Unaligned box on the Prince board. 
Place the 2 action markers on the Threat space (red circle) 
of the Mind sheet that shows the Oathkeeper goal. 
5. 
Place the threat and tactics markers on the starting (starred) 
spaces of their tracks on the Prince board.
6. 
Place the Prince’s pawn at the top Cradle site.
RULES CONFLICTS AND CHANGES
• In any conﬂ icts, these rules supersede the core rules.
• Any suits in the Conspirators column count as advisers 
for resolving powers (including the Conspiracy and the 
Recover restriction when other players are recovering the 
Darkest Secret from the Prince).
• Human players must track the order in which they have 
taken relics from left to right.
• In campaigns, the Prince adds attack dice as the attacker, 
and subtracts attack dice as the defender, as shown by 
their Tactics track. This cannot be modiﬁ ed or canceled.
• If the Prince is the Chancellor: Citizens cannot become 
Exiles during play. Citizens refresh their Supply as if they 
were the Chancellor by counting the warbands in the 
Prince’s personal bank. (You can check this on the Princely 
Reliquary board, even though the Prince does not track Supply.)
• If the Prince is an Exile: They act as if their Threat is 
the Usurper, regardless of which Threats exist. If they are 
the Usurper, they choose No Threat instead. They do not 
reveal Visions or accept Citizenship oﬀ ers.
TIEBREAKERS
In all ties, the Prince chooses the leftmost choice—whether 
which region to play a card to (Cradle ﬁ rst), which card in a drawn 
hand to choose to play (ﬁ rst drawn), which player (earliest in turn 
order), which relic to recover (closest to site), which relic to target 
(ﬁ rst taken, placed leftmost in row), or which Friend or Conspirator 
suit in the same row to choose (ﬁ rst that entered the space). 
TURN STRUCTURE
The Clockwork Prince’s turn has four phases in this order:
Assess Threat
Search and Play One Card
Take Actions
Cleanup
1. ASSESS THREAT (Skip this phase on your ﬁ rst turn.)
Place your threat marker on the space on the Prince board 
showing your current thReat, which is the ﬁ rst true condition 
of these in order, or on “No Threat?” if none are true: 
As Chancellor, does a Citizen meet the Successor goal?
As Exile, are you not the Usurper? As Chancellor, is an Exile 
the Usurper, or is an Exile the Oathkeeper on round eight?
Has an Exile revealed and completed a Vision?
Is an Exile the Oathkeeper?
Do not move your action markers on the Mind sheet if:
• There is no Threat, or
• A Threat exists and is the same as on your previous turn, 
and your action marker is in the Threat’s Mind quadrant
Move both action markers to the Threat space on the Mind 
sheet that corresponds to your current Threat if:
• There is a new or diﬀ erent Threat, or
• A Threat exists and is the same as on 
your last turn, but your action marker 
is not in the Threat’s Mind quadrant
(For example, if a Citizen meets their Successor goal by holding the 
Darkest Secret, move the markers to Threat space for the Darkest Secret.)
Wake—If you have the People’s Favor, place favor on it if able.
2. SEARCH AND PLAY ONE CARD
Draw three cards from the world deck. Do not stop drawing 
if you draw a Vision! If you draw three Visions, keep drawing 
until you draw a denizen. 
Reveal the drawn cards except for Visions. Place them in a row 
in the order you drew them from left to right. For each battle 
plan you reveal, advance your Tactics by one. 
Play one card whose suit is described by the Mind quadrant 
that your action marker is in. (For example, the top-left quadrant 
says to “Play a Friend” as its ﬁ rst condition. If you draw a Discard 
 and two Hearth 
 cards, and Hearth 
 is a higher Friend than 
, you play the Hearth 
 card you drew ﬁ rst—the leftmost.)
Play it to the topmost Cradle site you are able to. If you cannot, 
play it to the topmost Provinces site you are able to. If you 
cannot, play it to the topmost Hinterland site you are able to. 
Gain one favor from the favor bank matching the played card.
If you cannot play this card to any site, discard it and gain what 
is shown in the Can’t Play Card box of your Mind quadrant. 
Gain favor from the bank matching the discarded card and add it 
to your Ambition box. The shield advances your tactics marker.
Advance the relationship marker matching the suit of card you 
played or discarded by one space, unless the marker is in the top 
Relationships space. If the new space already has markers, place 
the advancing marker to the right of the markers there.
3. TAKE ACTIONS
Take the number of actions shown by the Relationships box 
you advanced the marker into this turn (ﬁ ve if topmost). If you 
skiP any actions, do not count them toward the number of 
actions you’ve taken this turn. (Don’t track Supply.)
For each action, move your current action marker 
along the arrow from your action space to the 
new action space, and take the action there. To 
follow an arrow, you must meet the condition it 
says. (Don’t move your starting action marker yet. It 
will help you count the actions you’ve taken this turn.)
If you can follow multiple arrows, follow the red arrow if able, 
then the orange arrow if able, then the black arrow. (If there are 
two orange arrows, follow the orange arrow marked Higher Priority.)
an action 
space
a Threat space
1 rules sheet & 1 Mind sheet 
The Mind sheet is on the back of the 
Chronicle aid sheet.
START
10 markers (double-sided) 
These are on the backs of 
the bandit tokens.
4 R

L
t
Throughout the rest of this book, boxes like this one will help you 
get playing quickly and prompt you to open new card packets.
earning Oath to Teach Later?
If you’re learning Oath before getting together with your group, there are a 
few ways you can do this, depending on how you like to learn.
If you like learning in a gradual way with lots of examples, read this book. 
If you mostly play games like Catan and Pandemic, this playbook is for you.
If you like learning from strict, literal rules, read the Law of Oath. It’s a comprehensive 
reference with few graphics and no examples, so some people will find it overwhelming to 
read first. If you mostly play games like Twilight Struggle and the 18XX series, this is for you.
If you like learning by doing, use the card-based setup and the walkthrough in this book, 
as described in “Teaching Oath Right Now?” below. Whether you learn from this book or 
the Law of Oath, we strongly recommend you read the walkthrough or play through it!
You’ll find other helpful learning materials on our site: ledergames.com/oath
Tips and Expectations
Play your first game with three or four players. Whether you’re using the walkthrough or not, 
we strongly recommend this. If you have more than four, you’ll want to pair people together. 
If you want to play Oath with two players, we recommend adding the Clockwork Prince 
automated player, but we do not recommend using this for your first play.
Expect a range of play times. Oath can end fast or go long. In your first game where you’re 
teaching players who are all new, you will likely play for two or three hours—rarely, four or five 
hours. Within a few plays, though, you’ll be able to finish most games in two hours or less.
eaching Oath Right Now?
If you’re about to teach Oath right now without preparing much beforehand, 
we recommend using the card-based setup and one-round walkthrough.
Set up the game using the card-based walkthrough. Find the three card packets labeled 
Packets A, B, and C. Open Packet A and flip over the first card to begin setting up. 
Once you are done, your game should look like the example on the next page.
Explain the basics of Oath by reading pages 8–11. These pages contain all the info you’ll 
need to start playing. Read these pages aloud, pointing to relevant pieces as needed.
Skip the detailed actions on pages 12–17. These pages are meant for teachers learning the 
game before playing. Groups get bogged down explaining everything up front, so skip this!
Follow the walkthrough on pages 18–25. The walkthrough is made for four players, but you 
can play with three people if one person plays for two. It lasts for only one round, and when 
you’re done you can remove all of the red, blue, or yellow pieces, discard their cards, and 
keep playing with three players. Here are the play styles that the walkthrough encourages:
•	 Play the Chancellor if you want to rule with an iron fist and manage crisis after crisis.
•	 Play the Red Exile if you want to build a powerful economy.
•	 Play the Blue Exile if you want to cultivate a diverse set of paths to victory.
•	 Play the Yellow Exile if you want to crush your enemies with a strong military.
If you ever need to rebuild the card packets, the cards used in the walkthrough are 
mentioned on pages 6–7. For a detailed guide, visit our site: ledergames.com/oath
L
t
R 5

Decadent
Careless
Greedy
traveling to a site in the 
Cradle from a site in the 
Provinces or Hinterland.
If you’re traveling to a site 
in the Hinterland, increase 
the Travel cost by 1 Supply.
You gain one more 
 
(even when trading for 
).
You must gain one less 
 
when trading for 
Draw two more cards. 
(Stop after a Vision as normal.)
You cannot search if you 
would spend more than 
2 Supply.
Citizenship off ers must promise exactly one relic from the Imperial Reliquary.
These cannot be taken with Campaign or Recover and do not add to victory goals.
 The Grand Scepter
You cannot use this if you took it this turn.
action: Peek in the Imperial Reliquary.
 action: Off er Citizenship to any Exile, 
or exile a Citizen except yourself. 
 
 
S
a
b
d
×17
8 to 
Packet A 
Step 2
Open Packet A now to start the card-based setup! 
If you want to follow the instructions on this page instead, you’ll 
find the cards you need in the packets listed throughout this page.
1.	 Unroll the map and place it on the table.
2.	 Put the Plains, 
Mountain, and 
site cards faceup 
on the map in 
the top site slot 
in the Cradle, 
Provinces, and Hinterland, respectively. 
The remaining 5 site cards go facedown 
in the site slots from a to e, shown above. 
(a is Lush Coast, c is Wastes, d is Salt Flats.)
3.	 Put the purple pawn on the Plains, the 
red and blue pawns on the Mountain, 
and yellow pawn on the Rocky Coast.
4.	 Find the 24 purple warbands. Put two 
warbands on the Plains, one warband on 
the Mountain, and one warband on the 
Rocky Coast.
etup for the First Game
S
5.	 Put a track marker on the first space 
(marked with a star) of the Round track 
and Visions Drawn track.
6.	 Collect these pieces in a shared bank 
near the map: 36 favor tokens, 20 secret 
tokens, 10 attack dice, 6 defense dice, the 
end die, the Oathkeeper of Supremacy 
goal reference, and the Banner of the 
People’s Favor (showing the intact banner) 
and Banner of the Darkest Secret 
placards. Put 1 favor token on the 
People’s Favor, and put 1 secret token 
on the Darkest Secret.
7.	 Put 3 favor tokens ^1 in each of the six 
favor banks on the map.
8.	 Choose one player to play as the Chancellor. 
They sit on the short edge of the map near 
the Cradle title. They take the Chancellor 
board and Imperial Reliquary board.
6 R

c
e
Packet B 
Steps 12–14
Packet C 
Steps 15–18
!×10
@×6
~×1
 
 
 
 
1×12 here
and 24^1 elsewhere
2×15 here
and 5^2 elsewhere
9.	 Chancellor, do the following:
•	 Take your 20 purple warbands. Put three 
on your own board and keep 17 nearby. 
•	 Put 2 favor tokens ^1^1 and 1 secret 
token ^2 on your own board.
•	 Put a Supply marker on the leftmost 
Supply track space on your own board.
•	 Put the Oathkeeper title over your 
Chancellor name on your own board.
10.	Seat the three other players and give them 
the red, blue, and yellow Exile boards. 
They sit in clockwise order around the map 
from the Chancellor—Red, Blue, Yellow.
11.	Each Exile, do the following:
•	 Take your 14 warbands. Put three on 
your own board and keep 11 nearby. 
•	 Put 1 favor token ^1 and 1 secret 
token ^2 on your own board.
•	 Put a Supply marker on the leftmost 
Supply track space on your own board.
12.	Put denizen cards on 
the map as follows.
•	 Cradle: Longbows 
by the Plains site. 
Three facedown 
cards in the Cradle 
discard pile.
•	 Provinces: Taming Charm by the 
Mountain site. Three facedown cards 
in the Provinces discard pile.
•	 Hinterland: Elders by the Rocky 
Coast site. Five facedown cards in the 
Hinterland discard pile.
13.	Put these 4 denizen cards to the right of 
the players’ boards facedown as follows:
•	 Chancellor: Forest Paths
•	 Red Exile: Animal Playmates
•	 Blue Exile: Naysayers
•	 Yellow Exile: A Small Favor
14.	Put the remaining 41 denizen and 
Vision cards as ordered in Packet B on 
the “World Deck” space on the map.
15.	Give the Grand 
Scepter relic card 
to the Chancellor. 
They place it near 
their board.
16.	Put the Ivory Eye 
relic card facedown 
next to the Mountain site. 
17.	Put the next 4 relic cards facedown on 
the four Imperial Reliquary spaces.
18.	Put the remaining 15 relic cards on 
the “Relic Deck” space on the map.
SHARED BANK
R 7

Ruling Sites on the Map
Oathkeeper
Goal
The bottom goal is 
explained on page 26.
Goal Reference
Oathkeeper Title
Read pages 8–11 
to everyone aloud.
ho You Are, How to Win
Oath is a game about history. It’s about what gets 
forgotten, who gets left behind, and how power moves from one part 
of society to another. In each game, players will steer the fate of this 
land toward their own interests, affecting all the games to come. 
In your first game of Oath, one player will be the Chancellor, and the other 
players will start as Exiles. Some Exiles may become Citizens in play.
The Chancellor
In your first game, the Chancellor begins as 
the Oathkeeper of Supremacy.
To remain the Oathkeeper of Supremacy, the Chancellor must rule 
the most sites, as shown by the Oathkeeper goal below.
At the start of the game, 
the Chancellor rules three sites. 
As shown above, the map of this land has three 
regions—the Cradle, the Provinces, and the 
Hinterland. The Cradle contains two sites, while 
the Provinces and Hinterland each contain three. 
(We only show the top site of each region above.) 
You rule a site if you have any number of your 
warbands on it. A site can only hold warbands 
of one color at a time, so generally only one 
player can rule a site at a time.
The Chancellor rules three sites and nobody else 
rules any, so the Chancellor marks their title as 
Oathkeeper by taking the Oathkeeper title.
8 R

This Vision mirrors This Oath
If drawn from world deck, increase Visions Drawn.
Exiles can play this faceup on their Revealed Vision space.
wake: You win if you rule the 
most sites and at least three Visions 
have been drawn from the deck.
Vision of Conquest
Oath lasts up to eight rounds, but the Chancellor 
can only win on rounds five through eight.
At the end of the fifth, sixth, and seventh rounds, 
the Chancellor has a chance to win. If they are the 
Oathkeeper, they roll a six-sided die to determine 
whether the game ends:
•	 End of fifth round: Game ends on die roll of 6
•	 End of sixth round: Game ends on die roll of 5–6
•	 End of seventh round: Game ends on die roll of 3–6
•	 End of eighth round: Game always ends
The Chancellor wins if the die roll ends the game or if 
they’re the Oathkeeper at the end of the eighth round. 
If any Exiles have become Citizens, they might win instead of the 
Chancellor. You’ll learn about them on page 26!
The Exiles
An Exile can become the Oathkeeper, 
but they must become the Usurper to win.
If an Exile rules the most sites, they take the Oathkeeper title 
from its current holder. If they ever start their turn as the 
Oathkeeper, their title flips to Usurper.
If the Exile remains the Usurper until the start of their next turn, they win! 
They also win if they’re the Usurper at the end of the eighth round.
The Exiles have a second path to victory—becoming a Visionary.
In each game of Oath, you play with only one of the four possible Oathkeeper goals—in 
this game, the Oathkeeper of Supremacy. But you’ll always play with all four true Visions, 
which mirror the four Oathkeeper goals. For example, the Vision of Conquest lets you win 
if you rule the most sites, mirroring the 
Oathkeeper of Supremacy goal. As you 
search for cards, you might find a Vision!
An Exile wins if they have a Vision 
played and its goal fulfilled at the start 
of their turn. They also win in this way 
at the end of round eight as long as the 
Chancellor isn’t the Oathkeeper.
Often, the Exiles will try to be the 
Oathkeeper—which stops the Chancellor 
from rolling the die to win—while also 
working to complete a Vision.
You’ll learn more about the fifth, false 
Vision—the Conspiracy—on page 27.
UsuRPeR
wake: You win!
Prevent rolls to end the game.
R 9

Spending 2 Supply shifts 
the marker twice.
The Broad Strokes of Play
On your turn, you’ll do three phases—Wake, Act, then Rest. Once you’re done, the 
next player in clockwise order takes their turn. Once each player has taken a turn, 
the round ends. Keep playing like this until someone wins or you finish the eighth round!
The Wake Phase
Only Exiles do much in this phase. As an Exile, you’ll check whether you win as the Usurper 
or Visionary, then if you have the Oathkeeper title, you’ll flip it to Usurper. Whether you’re 
an Exile or not, you might also use Wake powers on the few cards that have them.
The Act Phase
In this phase, the main part of the game, you can take these major actions:
Search: Draw three cards, discard two, and play one. 
You can draw from the deck or from the discard pile of 
the region your pawn is in, giving you more powers and 
ways to win. If you play to your site, you also get a favor!
 
Muster: Gain warbands from a card at your site. 
You’ll need to spend favor to get warbands if you want 
to campaign effectively and defend yourself against 
your enemies.
Trade: Gain favor or secrets from a card at your site. 
Favor and secrets are resources you’ll spend to do many 
actions. You’ll need favor to get secrets, and you’ll need 
secrets to get favor.
Recover: Take a relic from your site. 
Relics will cost you some favor or secrets, but they’ll 
give you great powers and add to some victory goals.
 
Campaign: Attack sites, relics, banners, and pawns. 
If your enemies have what you desire, campaign against 
them to take it. However, you may find that victory 
costs you dearly...
Travel: Move your pawn to a different site. 
You’ll need to travel, moving your pawn around the 
map, so you can use strong cards and take your other 
actions effectively.
You can take any number of actions in any order.
Even the same one multiple times or none at all!
Every major action costs 1 to 4 Supply.
Each time you spend a Supply, shift your Supply marker 
on your board once to the right. These Supply costs are 
listed in “The Actions” (pages 12–17).
Most major actions refer to your site.
This term means the site that your pawn is at.
You can take various minor actions, which cost no Supply.
Some minor actions include flipping over facedown cards to play faceup, peeking at relics at 
your site, and picking up and dropping off warbands at your site if you rule it (page 17).
 +^1?
 
+^1 or ^2
10 R

This card has a new action you can 
take by placing one favor on it.
Wayside Inn
action: Gain 2 Supply.
Cost
Favor
Many cards in Oath give new actions.
These cost no Supply, but some cost favor or secrets, which 
usually you’ll put on the card. Generally, you can’t put favor 
or secrets on a card with favor or secrets on it already!
Almost all cards live either at a site or in a player’s advisers, 
which is a personal set of cards to the right of their board.
You can only use a card’s power if...
•	 Your pawn is at the site that has the card, or—
•	 You rule the card, even if your pawn isn’t at the site with 
it. You rule all cards in your advisers and at sites you rule.
There are a few other kinds of card powers.
Some modify the six major actions, some only happen once when played, and some can only 
be used if you rule them, regardless of whether your pawn is at the card’s site or not.
when Played, 
gain four warbands.
Action Modifiers. For example, 
this power modifies the Travel action.
When-Played Powers. This 
happens when the card is played.
Battle Plans. The crown shows you 
must rule this card to use its power.
The Rest Phase
In this phase, favor tokens on cards return to the six favor banks on the map, going to the 
bank that matches the card’s suit. Secret tokens on cards, however, return to your own board! 
As you’ll learn, secrets are your main way to get favor, so try not to lose your last one in play.
Wayside Inn
^1
^2
Favor on cards returns to the matching bank.
Secrets on cards return to your board!
After this, you’ll refresh your Supply. The amount you refresh depends on how many warbands 
are left in your personal bank next to your board—that is, not on the map or on your board. 
The fewer warbands you’ve mustered and need to feed, the more Supply you’ll have for yourself.
If you don’t spend all your Supply on your turn, you get to save it for your next turn! 
For each Supply you didn’t spend, refresh your Supply one extra space to the left.
...so you refresh to the “3 to 0” space, meaning you have 3 to 0 warbands.
You have two warbands 
left in your personal bank 
next to your board...
But if you had spent two less Supply, you would have refreshed two more spaces.
R 11

T
+2[
if this site is targeted.
Keep
This site (left) can hold up to three cards. 
This card (right) can only be played to 
site because it shows a tree ^c.
Skip to the walkthrough on 
page 18 to start playing now! 
SEARCH COST
If you draw from the discard pile of 
your region, it always costs 2 Supply. 
If you draw from the world deck, 
it costs 2 to 4 Supply, as shown by the 
Visions Drawn track next to the deck.
Searching the world deck costs 3 Supply if one 
Vision has been drawn from the world deck so far.
he Actions
 
Draw three cards, discard two, and play one.
Cost: 2 to 4 Supply, as shown to right
Draw three cards. You can draw either from 
the world deck or from the discard pile of the 
region that your pawn is in.
Then, discard two cards. If your pawn is in 
the Cradle, discard to the top of the Provinces 
discard pile. If you’re in the Provinces, 
discard to the Hinterland pile. If you’re in the 
Hinterland, discard to the Cradle pile.
Finally, play one card. Play the remaining card 
to your site or your advisers—or you can discard 
it. If the card shows a tree ^c, you can only play 
it to your site. If it shows a person ^s, you can 
only play it to your advisers.
When you play to a site, take one favor ^1 from 
the favor bank matching the suit of the card 
you played. You cannot play to a site that is at 
full card capacity, as shown to the right.
When you play to your advisers, you can place 
the card faceup or facedown, saving it to play 
faceup later (page 17). You can have up to 
three advisers, faceup or facedown. You must 
discard one if you’re playing a fourth.
Visions!
Visions are special cards with a different back and some extra rules.
•	 If you draw a Vision card from the world deck, stop drawing and advance the Visions 
Drawn marker on its track one space. You won’t draw any more cards during this Search.
•	 Anyone can play Visions as facedown advisers, but only Exiles can play them faceup to gain 
a new victory goal.
•	 When you play a Vision faceup, put it on the “Revealed Vision” space on your board. 
It is not an adviser! Later, if you reveal another Vision, you’ll need to discard the old one.
Why do I want to search?
Searching gives you options. If you feel behind, searching can get you exactly the card you 
need to make a new strategy or get a new victory goal. 
You can hold onto cards for the right time. In Oath you don’t have a traditional “hand” of 
cards. However, you can search for cards and hold them as facedown advisers—which you can 
think of like a hand—and either play or discard them later! 
Playing a card to your site gives you favor. If you’re low on favor, you can play a card to your 
site to get one. This isn’t the most efficient way to get favor, but it’s helpful! 
Visions only work once enough Visions have been drawn. Part of every Vision’s goal is 
that three or more Visions have been drawn from the world deck, so you can’t win with any 
Vision until that’s true. You can reveal a Vision before then, but you can’t win with it yet.
T
12 R

+2
to board
Gain warbands from a card at your site.
Put one favor ^1 on a card at your site that 
is empty, meaning it can’t have any favor or 
secrets on it already.
Take two warbands from your personal bank 
next to your board and put them on your 
board. You can hold any number of warbands!
Why do I want to muster?
Warbands are essential to campaigns. When attacking, your warbands let you roll more 
attack dice. When defending, your warbands add to your defense value, which the attacker 
will need to roll higher than in order to defeat you.
Gain favor or secrets from a card at your site.
You can either trade one secret for some favor, or you can trade two favor for some secrets.
To trade for favor, put one secret ^2 on an empty card at your site. Take one favor ^1, then 
take another favor ^1 for each of your faceup advisers that matches the suit of that card. 
This favor comes from the favor bank that matches the card you put the secret on.
To trade for secrets, put two favor ^1^1 on an empty card at your site. Take one secret ^2 
for each of your faceup advisers that matches the suit of that card. These secrets come from 
the shared bank.
The Chancellor trades with the Scryer d at their site. They only have an Order ^o adviser, so they take 
one favor ^1 from the Discord ^d bank. If they tried to trade for secrets ^2, they would have gotten none.
Bear Traps
−[
Kill one warband on 
the attacker’s board.
action: Peek at any 
one discard pile.
Scryer
from ^d
Why do I want to trade?
You need favor and secrets to do most things. Whether you’re mustering warbands, 
recovering relics, or using card powers, you’ll often need to spend these resources.
Getting more secrets will speed up your economy. Having more secrets means you 
can trade more times per turn, since secrets that you place on cards will return to your 
board during your Rest Phase. Secrets can be difficult to get, though, so it’s often a 
good idea to trade for one when you can, and it’s often a bad idea to burn away your 
last secret early in the game.
You can block your foes from taking favor. If other players like to gain favor from a 
favor bank of a specific suit, empty it out so they can’t take any more from it! This will 
slow them down at little cost to you.
R 13

Battle plans have a red, blue, or 
gradient power box with a Campaign 
icon surrounded by a crown.
+^[
if you sacrifi ce one 
warband in your force.
The Banners
Besides relics, you can also recover the 
Banner of the People’s Favor and the 
Banner of the Darkest Secret. 
These are described on page 28.
▶
To recover the relic from this site, put three 
favor 111 in the Arcane a bank. 
 Ivory Eye 
When targeted, this relic adds two 
defense dice @@ to the pool.
Take a relic from your site.
You can recover a facedown relic that is at 
your site by paying the cost written on the site 
in its bottom-right corner.
The cost may prompt you to put favor ^1 in a 
specific favor bank, to burn favor q by returning 
it to the shared bank, or to burn a secret ^w by 
returning it to the shared bank.
Take the relic and put it near your board faceup. 
You can hold any number of relics!
Why do I want to recover?
Relics count toward some victory goals. 
Plus, they give you tons of great powers. Just be 
wary—players can campaign against them and 
take them away from you.
Attack sites, relics, banners, and pawns.
Cost: 2 Supply
Choose One Defender. This can be any other player who rules your site or whose pawn is at 
your site. If no player rules your site, you can choose the bandits—basically, a neutral player 
that rules empty sites.
Declare Targets. You can declare any number of 
targets, but you must declare at least one target 
at your site (where your pawn is), and you must 
target your site if the defender rules it (meaning 
they have any number of their warbands on it).
These are your possible targets:
•	 Any sites they rule­—yes, any on the map!
•	 Any relics they hold if their pawn is at 
your site.
•	 Their pawn and favor if their pawn is at 
your site.
Each target adds the defense dice shown by the 
shield in its top-right corner to the defender’s 
pool. (The shield for pawn & favor is on their board.)
You’ll collect attack dice in your pool up to 
the number of warbands on your board.
Use Battle Plans. First, you say if you want to 
use any, then the defender does. These cards 
help players win the Campaign (page 27).
Roll Defense. The defender rolls their pool of 
defense dice, then counts up their defense by adding up the following: 
•	 The $ shields they rolled on the defense dice. Each # roll doubles the total $ shields rolled.
•	 Their warbands at sites targeted—bandits add one per site.
•	 Their warbands on their board if their pawn is at your site or at any site you targeted.
14 R

The defender rolls one shield and has 
two warbands on the site you targeted, 
for a total of three defense.
You roll two swords and one hollow 
sword, which doesn’t count by itself, for 
a total of two attack.
To be victorious, you need to sacrifice 
two warbands. You choose to do so! You 
take two warbands off your board and 
put them next to your board.
You kill one of the defending warbands, 
putting it next to their board, and 
return the other one onto their board.
2 Attack
3 Defense
DICE FACES
Attack 
Die
Defense 
Die
Roll Attack. Roll your pool of attack dice. 
Count up your attack by adding together the 
^7 swords you rolled, counting every two ^&^& 
hollow swords as one ^7 sword. (Do not count a 
single remaining hollow sword at all!)
Each ^% skull you roll immediately kills one 
warband on your own board. (Not the defender’s!)
If your attack is higher than the defender’s 
defense, you are victorious. If it is tied or 
lower than their defense, they are victorious.
If your attack is not high enough, you may 
increase it by sacrificing warbands from your 
board, adding one to your attack for each 
warband you sacrifice. 
Resolve Victory or Defeat. If you are 
victorious, do the following:
•	 Kill half of the warbands that added to 
their defense, rounded down, placing 
them next to the defender’s board. 
Return the rest onto their board.
•	 Place any number of warbands from your 
board onto targeted sites. 
•	 Take all of the targeted relics. 
•	 If you targeted their pawn and favor, make 
them travel to a site of your choice, and burn 
half of their favor from their board, rounded 
down, returning it to the shared bank.
If you are defeated, you take no targets, and 
half of the warbands on your board are killed, 
rounded down.
Why do I want to campaign?
It’s a simple way to take stuff. But watch out, it can be expensive! It costs a lot of Supply, and 
you might lose warbands without gaining anything for it.
R 15

TRAVEL COST
This cost is shown by the region your 
pawn is in, and it depends on which 
region you are traveling to. Here is an 
example for traveling from the Cradle.
CRADLE
1 Supply 
to travel to 
the other 
Cradle site.
2 Supply to 
travel to any 
Provinces site.
4 Supply to 
travel to any 
Hinterland 
site.
When revealed, this site gets three 
favor from the shared bank, and it gets 
one relic card from the relic deck.
Move your pawn to a different site.
Cost: 1 to 4 Supply, as shown to right
Move your pawn to any site you want to go to. 
If the site is facedown, flip it over!
If you flip a site faceup that has favor ^1 or 
secret ^2 icons in its top-left corner, put that 
many favor or secrets from the shared bank on 
it. Likewise, if it has “R” icons in its top-left 
corner, take that many relic cards from the relic 
deck and put them next to the site facedown.
Why do I want to travel?
Traveling lets you use new cards. Whether you 
need to trade or muster on an empty card or 
use a specific card power, chances are that you 
can use it once you travel to it.
Traveling lets you search elsewhere. If there’s a 
card you want in another region’s discard pile, 
you’ll need to travel to a site in that region. 
Likewise if your region’s discard pile is empty 
and you don’t want to search the world deck.
Traveling gives you space to play cards. Each 
site has a limited capacity for cards. So if your 
site is full but you want to play cards to a site, 
you’ll need to travel to a new one.
Traveling lets you find new relics. You need to 
be at the site with a relic in order to recover it. 
If there are no relics left at faceup sites, you’ll 
probably find one if you travel to a facedown site!
16 R

A FEW MORE...
There are a few minor actions related 
to offering Citizenship and exiling 
Citizens. We group these with the 
rules of Citizenship later (page 26). 
Every player starts with a facedown adviser. 
For example, in this first game, the Chancellor 
starts with Forest Paths! They could play this 
either to their advisers or to their site.
Cost: 0 Supply
Flip a facedown adviser faceup or discard it. 
This works exactly like you just drew it using 
Search (page 12).
Basically, think of your facedown advisers as a 
hand of cards that you can play on your turn 
by spending no Supply. However, all of your 
advisers—whether they’re faceup or facedown—
count toward your limit of three advisers.
Use an Action card power. This was described 
in “The Broad Strokes of Play” (pages 10–11). 
Basically, you can use a card power that says 
“Action:” if the card is at your pawn’s site, if it 
is faceup in your advisers, or if you rule the site 
where the card is—even if your pawn isn’t there!
Pick up or drop off warbands at your site if 
you rule it. You must leave at least one of your 
warbands there, though.
Peek at relics at your site. The holder of the 
Grand Scepter—a relic that the Chancellor 
always start the game with—can also peek at 
relics in the Imperial Reliquary.
R 17

when Played, gain one 
warband per site you rule, and 
put one warband from your 
board on each site you rule.
Garrison
when Played, gain one 
warband per site you rule, and 
put one warband from your 
board on each site you rule.
Garrison
ame or no 
Successor.
h a banner. 
avor at one 
cret at one 
from ^o
e or no 
ccessor.
banner. 
or at one 
et at one 
alkthrough — Chancellor
The first phase of the turn is the Wake Phase. However, the only thing the 
Chancellor can do now is check the People’s Favor. The Chancellor doesn’t have the 
People’s Favor—so unpopular!—so they skip this phase and go to the Act Phase, the main phase 
of the game.
Search the deck. To draw from the deck, I need to spend 2 Supply, so I push my Supply 
marker twice to the right. I draw three cards.
Why 2 Supply? Take a look at the Visions Drawn track next to the world deck. This shows that it currently 
costs 2 Supply to draw from the deck. As Vision cards are drawn from the deck, this cost increases.
I only get to keep one card, so I’ll keep Garrison. My pawn is on the Plains, which is in the 
Cradle region, so I discard the other two cards facedown to the top of the discard pile of the 
Provinces region.
Whenever you discard cards, place them in the next discard pile out. Cards discarded from the Cradle 
go to the Provinces discard pile, Provinces cards go to the Hinterland, and Hinterland cards wrap 
around to the Cradle.
I’ll play Garrison to my site, the Plains.
Garrison has a tree ^c restriction in the top-left 
corner under its suit. This means Garrison can 
only be played to your site! Notably, any card 
can be played as an adviser facedown, even 
Garrison or a card like it.
I take one favor 1 from the Order o bank on 
the map and put it on my board.
Why am I taking favor? Whenever you play a card 
to your site, you gain one favor! It comes from the 
favor bank matching the suit of the card you played—
in this case, Order ^o.
Then I resolve Garrison’s power: I gain three warbands and place one each on the three sites 
I rule—the Plains, the Mountain, and the Rocky Coast.
Remember—you rule a site if you have any number of your warbands on it. Pawns don’t matter for rule.
Trade at the Garrison. I spend 1 Supply, then take one secret 
^2 from my board and place it on the Garrison card ^o. In return, 
I take one favor ^1 from the Order ^o bank and put it on my board.
Trade is different from playing a card to site, which gives one favor. With 
the Trade action, you gain one favor plus another favor for each adviser you 
have matching the suit of that card. Remember—your advisers are the 
cards to the right of your board, except for relics.
18 R

me or no 
uccessor.
a banner. 
vor at one 
ret at one 
You may draw from a 
discard pile in a diff erent 
region instead of yours.
Errand Boy
+2!
CRADLE
Search the deck. Like before, I spend 2 Supply and draw three 
cards. I’ll play Errand Boy to my advisers to the right of my board, 
and discard the other two cards I drew to the Provinces.
Unlike Garrison, Errand Boy has no restriction shown under its suit, so it 
can be played to either site or advisers. Notably, you do not gain a favor for 
playing a card to your advisers.
Travel to the other Cradle site. I spend 
1 Supply, flip over the facedown site at the Cradle to 
reveal the Lush Coast, and place my pawn there.
Why 1 Supply? Look at the Travel aid under the Cradle 
title on the map. From the Cradle, it costs 1 Supply to go 
to the other Cradle site, 2 Supply to go to any Provinces 
site, and 4 Supply to go to any Hinterland site.
Reveal my Forest Paths. As a minor action, I flip over the facedown card in my advisers. 
I play it to my site and take one favor from the Beast b bank. This costs no Supply.
Why could I play Forest Paths? When you have an adviser facedown, you’re saying, “I’ll 
play this card faceup later.” When you do play it later, it works exactly like you’d just drawn it, 
including gaining favor. By keeping advisers facedown, you can hide useful info and wait for the 
right time to play something! You can even hold cards with restrictions, like the tree c, facedown.
Lush Coast
me or no 
uccessor.
a banner. 
avor at one 
ret at one 
Trade at the Forest Paths. I spend 1 Supply. I place two favor 
11 on the Forest Paths card, and I take one secret 2 from the 
shared bank and put it on my board.
Trading for secrets is harder than trading for favor. You only get one secret per 
adviser of matching suit—if you don’t have any matching advisers, you won’t 
get any secrets. The denizens keep their secrets close!
Rest. I’m out of Supply, so I’ll rest. I return the two favor on Forest Paths to the Beast b 
bank, and return the secret on Garrison to my board. I have 14 warbands in my bank—in 
other words, not on the map or on my board—so I refresh my Supply to its “17 to 11” space.
The more warbands you’ve mustered and need to provision, the less Supply you get to keep for yourself!
Why is the Chancellor doing this? The Chancellor wants to build up warbands at sites they 
rule so that the sites are harder to campaign against. In this game, the Oathkeeper goal is to hold 
the most sites, and being the Oathkeeper is the main way the Chancellor can win.
Otherwise, it never hurts to get some more favor and secrets, since those are the main resources 
you’ll spend. Getting another secret is especially important since they can be hard to get, and since 
they increase the number of times you can trade per turn.
R 19

mustering on a ^
Animal Playmates
+22!
Walkthrough — Red Exile
Search the Provinces discard. This costs 2 Supply. I draw three cards from the 
top of the Provinces discard pile. I play The Old Oak to my site, take one favor from 
the Beast b bank, and discard the other two cards to the Hinterland discard pile.
Does drawing from a discard ever get more expensive? Nope! It always costs 2 Supply, no matter 
how expensive drawing from the world deck becomes. However, you can only draw from the discard pile in 
the region that your pawn is in, so it might empty out.
 
 
from ^b
The Mountain can only hold two cards, shown by the card icon in its top-right corner, so 
now it’s full!
Can I discard cards from sites? No, not unless something explicitly allows you to. Later during your 
turn, though, you’ll recover the People’s Favor, which will let you discard cards at sites!
Reveal my Animal Playmates. As a minor action, I’ll flip 
over my facedown adviser and play it to my advisers. It’s my 
Animal Playmates!
Animal Playmates has a person ^s in its top-left corner. This means 
the card can only be played to advisers! You can only hold up to 
three advisers at a time, whether they’re faceup or facedown.
Trade with The Old Oak. I spend 1 Supply 
and put two favor on The Old Oak. In return, 
I get two secrets from the shared bank.
Why two secrets? Red gains one secret because they 
have one Beast b adviser, and gains one more secret 
because they traded with The Old Oak for secrets 
and had at least one Beast b adviser.
Search the deck. This costs 2 Supply. I only draw two cards, not three. I find the Alchemist, 
and I’ve seen a Vision! I advance the Visions Drawn marker on its track once. I play the 
Alchemist to my advisers, and I discard the Vision to the Hinterland.
Why two cards? When you draw a Vision card from the world deck, you stop drawing cards immediately! 
So really, you should draw cards from the world deck one at a time. You don’t stop drawing cards if you 
draw a Vision from a discard pile, though.
What does the Visions Drawn track do? It shows the Supply cost to search the world deck. 
As more Visions are drawn, the cost goes up!
mustering on a ^
Animal Playmates
action: Gain ] ] ] ^] from 
any favor bank or banks.
20 R

action: Gain ] ] ] ^] from 
any favor bank or banks.
−2!
to shared bank
+41!
from ^nado
Use my Alchemist. I place one secret on it and burn one 
secret, returning it to the shared bank. In return, I take four 
favor, one each from these banks: Nomad ^n, Arcane ^a, 
Discord ^d, and Order ^o.
Actions on cards do not cost Supply. The ^2 on the card’s power 
box means “I put one secret on this card.” The ^w on it means 
“I burn one secret, returning it to the shared bank.”
Recover the People’s Favor. This costs 1 Supply. I take the Banner of the People’s Favor 
placard and put it near my board. I’ll choose to put two of my favor on it, and I’ll choose to 
put the one favor that was already on it into the Beast ^b bank.
What is the People’s Favor? It is a banner, which adds to many victory goals. Now, whenever you’re 
playing a card to site, you can first discard one card at any site in your region, then you can play your card 
to any site in your region, not just your site. You don’t even need to discard and play at the same site! 
You can use this power to draft good cards for yourself while discarding good cards from your enemies.
Why two favor? To recover the People’s Favor, you need to put more favor on it than it has already— 
in this case, the one favor it started with. Red could have chosen to put even more favor on it, though! 
The more favor on it, the harder it is for other players to recover it or take it in a campaign.
What’s this “Wake” power on it? From now on, during Red’s Wake Phase, they will either need to 
place one favor on the People’s Favor, or the People’s Favor will lose one favor to the bank that has the 
least favor. The people are hungry! Notably, the People’s Favor cannot lose its last favor token, so if it is 
down to one favor you will be forced to put a favor on it—unless you have no favor at all.
Can other players recover this from me now? Yup, watch out! Someone else can recover it from you 
by paying more favor than you have on the People’s Favor.
 
−1!
from the People’s 
Favor to b
Rest. I return the two favor from The Old Oak to the Beast ^b bank, and I return the secret 
from Alchemist to my board. I would refresh my Supply to the “9+” space, but I didn’t spend 
my last Supply, so I refresh it to the leftmost space.
When you end your turn with unspent Supply, you get to keep it for your next turn. You can’t push your 
Supply beyond its leftmost space, though.
Why is Red doing this? Seeing the strong defenses at the Chancellor’s sites, Red is avoiding 
getting into direct conflict with the Chancellor. Instead, they build a strong economic engine by 
getting two more secrets and finding the Alchemist, which is one of the best cards for getting a lot of 
favor in a short time—but it’s costly!
By recovering the People’s Favor, Red has set themself up to compete on two Visions—one being 
“hold the most relics and banners,” and the other being “hold the People’s Favor.” They will need 
to maintain their economy to keep feeding favor to the People’s Favor, and they will need to protect 
it from other players campaigning against them. If they hope to win, they’ll need to eventually find 
the right Vision card. Also, if they become a Citizen later on, they will be able to compete on the 
Successor goal, which is to hold more relics and banners than the Chancellor or any other Citizen.
R 21

 Ivory Eye 
 action: Peek at any facedown 
site, adviser, or relic at a site. 
−21!
to shared bank
Walkthrough — Blue Exile
Use Taming Charm. I put one secret on the Taming Charm card at my site to use 
its action, which costs no Supply. It lets me discard The Old Oak—which I put in 
the Hinterland discard pile—to take two favor from the Beast ^b bank.
If you take a look at Taming Charm, you’ll see that its power starts with “Action:” This 
means you can use this power as a minor action. Remember—using a card power never costs 
Supply, and generally you can use any card powers in your advisers, at the site where your 
pawn is, and at any sites you rule.
 
 
 
 
+21!
from ^b
Search the deck. I spend 3 Supply and draw three cards. I’ve seen a Vision! 
I keep the Vision as a facedown adviser and advance the Visions Drawn track once. 
Then I discard the other two cards to the Hinterland discard pile.
Why not reveal the Vision? Blue could have chosen to reveal it, putting 
it on their Revealed Vision slot on their board, rather than filling an adviser 
slot. They can still reveal it later as a minor action, spending no Supply. But 
the time wasn’t right, since Exiles can only win with a Vision if at least three 
Visions have been drawn from the world deck.
Can only Exiles reveal Visions? Yes, but there is one false Vision in the 
deck—the Conspiracy—which anyone can play. It lets you steal a banner or 
relic from someone whose pawn is at your site, given the right conditions!
Reveal my Naysayers. I flip my facedown adviser up, and I play it to my advisers.
The “Rest:” at the start of Naysayers’ power means it happens once during the Rest Phase.
Rest: If any Exile is the 
Oathkeeper or Usurper, take 
 from the Chancellor.
Naysayers
Peek at the relic. As a minor action, I take a look at the facedown relic at the Mountain, 
without showing it to anyone else. This costs no Supply.
You can always peek at relics at your site, even if you don’t want to recover them.
Recover the Ivory Eye. I spend 1 Supply and burn two favor, returning it to the shared 
bank, as shown on the Mountain, to take the relic from my site—it’s the Ivory Eye! I put it 
faceup next to my board, near my advisers.
Am I limited to three relics? Nope! Unlike advisers, 
you can hold any number of relics. 
Can other players recover relics from me? Nope. 
Unlike the two banners—the People’s Favor and the 
Darkest Secret—relics can only be recovered from sites, 
not from players. If someone really wants to take a relic 
from you, though, they can campaign against you!
22 R

Rest: If any Exile is the 
Oathkeeper or Usurper, take 
 from the Chancellor.
Salt Flats
/ 2 1
Travel to the third Provinces site. This costs 2 Supply. I flip the third Provinces site card 
up—it’s the Salt Flats! I put my pawn on it, and I put two favor and one secret on it from the 
shared bank.
Why did I travel to the third site? You don’t need to move between 
sites in any particular order! Blue could have moved to the second one, but 
chose to move to the third one instead, with no extra Supply spent! 
How did I know to put this stuff on the site? The 112 icons in 
its top-left corner mean “when revealed, put two favor and one secret from 
the shared bank onto this site.”
Rest. I refresh to my leftmost Supply space, and I return the 
secret from Taming Charm to my board. My Naysayers card, 
unfortunately, does not give me anything this turn because 
the Chancellor is the Oathkeeper, but it may let me take a 
favor from them on later turns.
As with Red, Blue refreshed one more Supply because they didn’t 
spend their last Supply this turn.
Why is Blue doing this? Concerned about the powerful combo that Red used to get secrets last 
turn, Blue sees an opportunity to break that combo and profit at the same time, so they discard The 
Old Oak for some favor. However, The Old Oak is just in a discard pile now, so it may get drawn 
and played again later in the game.
Blue is playing a diversified strategy—by recovering a relic, they can compete for holding the most relics 
and banners if they find the Vision of Sanctuary. By playing Naysayers, Blue will profit as long as an 
Exile is competing well for the Oathkeeper goal, so whether they pursue the Oathkeeper goal itself or 
let someone else go for it, they will benefit. Finally, they found a Vision and kept it, so now they have 
a new victory goal that they can pursue if they want to.
R 23

when Played, 
gain four warbands.
A Small Favor
+4
alkthrough — Yellow Exile
Muster from the Elders. I spend 1 Supply and put one favor ^1 on Elders. In 
return, I gain two warbands, taking them from my bank and adding them to the 
three warbands on my board.
Once a card has favor or secrets on it, you can’t put favor or secrets on it to do anything else. So Yellow 
cannot muster from the Elders again this turn, and cannot put favor on Elders to use its Action power.
+2
Reveal A Small Favor. I flip my facedown adviser up and play 
it to my advisers. This card’s power lets me gain four warbands, 
taking them from my bank and adding them to my board.
You’ll notice that A Small Favor has a chain on its restriction in the 
top-left corner under its suit. This card cannot be discarded, moved, 
swapped with other cards, or otherwise messed with. This is absolute 
and cannot be overridden.
Campaign against the Chancellor. This costs me 2 Supply. I choose the Chancellor as 
defender since they rule my site. I declare the Mountain and Rocky Coast as my targets.
Your defender is who you want to attack, and either their pawn or warbands must be at your site. Your targets 
are what you want to take, such as their sites or relics. You must declare at least one target at your site.
My targets give the Chancellor two defense dice, and the Chancellor gets a third defense die for 
being the Oathkeeper. I have nine warbands on my board, so I collect nine attack dice, but I 
lose one because I’m declaring the Mountain as a target—its power reduces attack dice by one.
How do I know to add dice? The shield in a target’s top-right corner shows the number of dice it adds.
I don’t rule any battle plans. The Chancellor rules the 
Longbows, removing one of my attack dice.
If I were at the Plains, could I use the Longbows? Nope! You 
need to rule battle plans to use them. This is shown by the crown 
outline around its action icon.
The Chancellor rolls their three defense dice and gets ^$, ^#, ^#, for a total of four ^$. 
Their total defense is eight—four shields ^$ plus their four warbands at the targeted sites. 
I roll my seven attack dice and get two swords ^7, three hollow swords ^&, and two skull and 
double swords ^%^7^7. The skulls mean I kill two of my own warbands immediately. Two of the 
hollow swords add up to one sword, but the remaining hollow sword counts for nothing. 
My total attack is seven.
You can choose to roll fewer attack dice than the number of warbands on your board.
+4
8 defense
7 attack
24 R

I need nine attack to beat the Chancellor’s eight defense, so I sacrifice two warbands. I’m 
victorious, so I kill half of the warbands in the Chancellor’s force. The targeted sites—the 
Mountain and the Rocky Coast—have four warbands, so two are killed and go back to the 
Chancellor’s bank next to their board, and the other two return to their board.
If Yellow didn’t sacrifice enough warbands to win, they would have lost half of their force—three warbands.
I put one warband on the Mountain and two on the Rocky Coast. I now rule the most sites, 
so I take the Oathkeeper title from the Chancellor.
What else can I declare as targets? Anything with a blue shield in its top-right corner—their sites, 
relics, and banners, as well as their pawn and favor, as shown by the “Banish” box on their board. 
If you’re victorious and you targeted their pawn and favor, you can put their pawn on any site, and you 
burn half the favor on their board, rounded down, returning it to the shared bank. To target their relics or 
their pawn and favor, their pawn must be at the same site as yours.
Search the deck. I spend 3 Supply, draw three cards, and find Tents. I play Tents to my site 
and gain one favor from the Nomad ^n bank. I discard the other two cards to the Cradle 
discard pile.
It may seem odd that the Hinterland cards go back up to the Cradle, but that is how it works!
Tents
from ^n
Use Tents to Travel. I put one favor on Tents to use it. I travel to the middle 
Hinterland site, reveal the Wastes, and place one relic next to it facedown. This costs no 
Supply because I used Tents and traveled to another site in my region.
You can use a card power if your pawn is at its site or if you rule it. Yellow rules the Rocky Coast—they 
have warbands on it—so they can use Tents on later turns even if their pawn is not at the Rocky Coast.
Wastes
Tents
Rest. I didn’t spend my final Supply this turn, so I refresh my Supply to the leftmost space 
instead of the “9+” space. I return the favor on Elders and Tents to the Nomad n bank.
It’s now the end of the round. Advance the round marker one space.
Why is Yellow doing this? Yellow started with A Small Favor, which lets them gain tons of 
warbands, so they see an opportunity to compete for the Oathkeeper goal—and succeed! By taking 
the Oathkeeper title, their defenses get stronger, making the other players less likely to attack them. 
Likewise, the Mountain is difficult to campaign against, further discouraging others from attacking.
Since they’ve built up a small kingdom, Yellow feels pretty safe in playing Tents to one of the sites 
they rule, keeping their advisers open for cards later, which is important since A Small Favor is now 
stuck in their advisers. Over time, Yellow will need to consolidate their power by getting battle plans 
that make them even better at campaigning and defending against enemy campaigns.
R 25

A
Successor
Goal
Goal Reference
Don’t teach these rules 
until you’ve played a round! 
Few More Rules...
For the full rules on these topics, read 
the Law of Oath section marked in 
[square brackets].
Offering Citizenship
The Chancellor can present tantalizing 
offers of Citizenship to Exiles.
[6.6] As you play on, the Chancellor will often lose 
their grip on power. To regain strength, they can 
offer Citizenship to the Exiles, promising a relic 
from the Imperial Reliquary. If an Exile accepts, 
they become part of the Empire, converting their 
warbands to purple.
However, if the Chancellor loses the Grand Scepter 
relic, they won’t be able to make offers of Citizenship 
anymore, and the new holder will. Yes, an Exile or 
Citizen can get control over offering Citizenship! 
Winning as a Citizen
Citizens cannot become a Usurper or Visionary. 
They only win if they become the Chancellor’s Successor.
[3.3] From now on, the Chancellor rolls the die 
to end the game if they are the Oathkeeper or 
any Citizen is. However, if the Chancellor would 
win, a Citizen wins instead if that Citizen meets the 
Successor goal on the goal reference. The Citizen 
wins alone—it is not a shared win!
In this game, the Successor goal is to hold more 
relics and banners than the Chancellor and more 
than any other Citizen.
In the walkthrough, Blue holds the Ivory Eye, the 
Chancellor holds the Grand Scepter, and Red holds the Banner of the People’s Favor—they are tied.
Citizens follow a few different rules.
[4.3.3] They refresh their Supply to match the Chancellor’s Supply space, then save 
unspent Supply as normal.
[6.5] Picking up purple warbands from their site requires the Chancellor’s permission. Also, 
if the pawn of the Chancellor or another Citizen is at their site, the Citizen can give or take 
purple warbands, with permission, moving them from one board to the other.
[5.5.1] They can campaign against the Chancellor and other Citizens with certain penalties.
Citizens can be exiled, turning them back into Exiles.
[6.7] The Grand Scepter’s holder may exile a Citizen by giving them five favor. They give 
one less favor if they are the Oathkeeper or have the People’s Favor, or two less if both. They 
give one more favor if the Citizen is the Oathkeeper or has the People’s Favor, or two more if 
both. The total range is three to seven favor.
[6.8] A Citizen may exile themself by giving favor to the Grand Scepter’s holder equal to 
the Citizen’s total number of secrets plus the number of warbands on the Citizen’s board. 
However, a Citizen cannot exile themself while they hold the Grand Scepter.
A
26 R

Battle plans have a Campaign 
icon surrounded by a crown.
Bandits
Sites with no warbands are ruled by bandits—basically a neutral player. 
[5.5.1] You can choose the bandits as a defender in a Campaign.
[5.5.3] When you target sites ruled by bandits, each bandit on those sites adds one defense. 
(Each site has one bandit printed on it, but you can use the included bandit tokens instead if desired.)
[5.5.4] Bandits will use all the battle plans they rule, as long as they don’t cost anything.
Battle Plans
Battle plans are campaign powers that break a few rules.
[7.5.1] You can only use a battle plan if you rule it, 
not just by having your pawn at its site.
[7.5.3] You can pay the cost of a battle plan even if 
it already has favor or secrets on it.
[7.1.2] To pay the cost of a power outside your turn, 
such as when using a defensive battle plan, put the 
favor back in its favor bank now, and flip over the 
secrets but keep them on your board. Facedown 
secrets will flip up during your next Rest Phase.
The Conspiracy
The Conspiracy is a false Vision that anyone can play.
[5.1.4.IV] There are four true Visions, which have new victory goals for the Exiles. But there 
is also one false Vision—the Conspiracy. Any player—even the Chancellor or a Citizen—can 
play it. It lets you burn a secret to steal a relic or banner from a player whose pawn is at your 
site. However, you must have at least two advisers that match the suit of any of their advisers.
Site Powers
Each site has a unique power.
As sites are revealed, read the Site Reference section on the player aids to learn their powers. 
In the walkthrough, these are the sites that have been revealed but not explained:
•	 Plains: This adds one attack die whenever this site or anything here is targeted in a Campaign.
•	 Salt Flats: At the start of Blue’s next turn, they’ll get to take one favor or secret from this site.
•	 Wastes: If you play a Discord card to this site, you recover the relic here, spending 0 Supply.
•	 The Rocky and Lush Coasts: Traveling between these sites only costs 1 Supply, not 4 Supply!
R 27

The holder’s site has two Order ^o 
cards, and they have one Order ^o 
adviser. The Darkest Secret is safe!
They play a Hearth ^h card to 
their site. The Darkest Secret is no 
longer safe at this site!
 
Goal Reference Back
VictoRy at End
with the denizens of this land 
exhausted from endless war
 
 
 
Banner of the People’s Favor
The People’s Favor is one of two banners.
Each banner adds to many victory goals! In this game, 
the People’s Favor adds to the Successor goal and 
the Vision of Sanctuary—both goals are to hold the 
most relics and banners. It also fulfills the Vision of 
Rebellion goal, which is to hold the People’s Favor.
It lets you play cards more flexibly.
Whenever you’re playing a card to site, you can first discard a card at any site in your region, 
and then you can play your card to any site in your region. It doesn’t need to be the same site!
It can be recovered like a relic, but from anywhere and anyone.
[5.4] To recover it, you’ll need to put more favor on it than it has already. When you do, take 
the old favor and put it back in the favor banks, one by one. You can start at the bank of any 
suit, and move away from the world deck, wrapping around if needed.
It demands favor from you on each of your turns.
[4.1.1] During your Wake Phase, you must put a favor on it or else return a favor from it to 
the bank with the least favor. Notably, it can’t go below one favor, so you must put a favor on 
it in this case as long as you have any favor. If it’s flipped to its Mob side, it will demand favor 
twice. It flips to the Mob side when taken in a Campaign or if it has six or more favor.
Banner of the Darkest Secret
The Darkest Secret is the other banner.
It works much like the People’s Favor. The main 
difference is that its corresponding Vision is the 
Vision of Faith, rather than the Vision of Rebellion.
It makes searching always cost 2 Supply.
As more Visions are drawn, the Supply cost to draw 
from the world deck will increase to four—punishingly high! But the Darkest Secret keeps this 
cost low, intriguing and seducing denizens around the world into meeting you. 
It can be recovered from anywhere...
[5.3] You’ll need to put more secrets on it than it has 
already. You’ll take one of its old secrets and give the 
rest to the player who used to hold it.
...unless the Darkest Secret is safe.
If every card at the holder’s site matches any of their 
advisers, the Darkest Secret is safe and cannot be 
recovered! This includes if the site has no cards.
War Exhaustion Win
At the end of the eighth round, the 
game always ends. 
[3.4] The goal reference shows the order of who wins 
the game. In some places, it says “Empire,” which 
means the Chancellor wins or a Citizen wins if that 
Citizen meets the Successor goal.
28 R

Rules Questions
Don’t worry too much about rules mistakes your first time. Oath is a deep, 
intricate game, so you will get a few things wrong. Unless your group is competitive, 
we suggest you make rulings that feel right and then find out the correct ruling after you play.
If you do need a precise answer about the rules, read the Law of Oath.
•	 If it’s about a component, read “Key Components” (page 4). 
•	 If it’s about actions, read “Major Actions” (pages 6–7) and “Minor Actions” (page 8). 
•	 If it’s about a game term, read the “Glossary” (page 11). 
If you need a quick refresher or think you’ve missed some subtle rules, read the 
“Weird Things About Oath” section at the back of this book.
If you need answers about site powers or cards in general, read the player aid sheet. 
If you still need answers about anything, you can find them in our database of cards, errata, 
and frequently asked questions on our site: ledergames.com/oath
nding Your First Game
Once you’re done playing, don’t start cleaning up right away! You’re about to 
write your first Chronicle, which saves a memory of your world that you will 
start with for your next game.
Open the Archive Packet. Put the 8 cardboard separators in the small 
box compartment. Put the 6 edifice cards in the sections of matching suits. 
Shuffle the 6 card stacks of each suit separately and put it in the section of 
the matching suit. This part of the box is called the Archive.
Find the Chronicle aid sheet, open the Law of Oath to “Writing the Chronicle” (page 10), 
and follow the instructions there to pack up your game.
E
R 29

Setup for Later Games
To set up for games beyond your first, use the Law of Oath (page 2). A few things 
are different from the setup for your first game. Here are the notable differences:
•	 Players can choose to start as Citizens, as long 
as your game ends with boards on their Citizen 
side. Citizens do not get a relic during setup.
•	 Exiles and Citizens choose their pawn’s site. The 
Chancellor puts their pawn at the top Cradle site. 
The other players can put theirs at any faceup site.
•	 Players choose an adviser. Each player draws 
three cards from the bottom of the deck, 
chooses one as a facedown adviser, and discards 
the other two as if they’d searched the deck.
•	 Each discard pile starts with an extra card. 
Along with the cards discarded as described 
above, each discard pile starts with one more 
card taken from the bottom of the world deck.
•	 The Chancellor might start with the People’s 
Favor or Darkest Secret. If you’re playing as the 
Oathkeeper of Devotion, the Chancellor gets 
the Darkest Secret. As the Oathkeeper of the 
People, the Chancellor gets the People’s Favor.
•	 Imperial warbands start at specific sites. Two 
purple warbands are put at the top Cradle site, 
and one is put at every other faceup site that 
has at least one denizen or intact edifice card. 
Ruined edifices don’t count, but you won’t see 
those until your third game or later.
You’ll notice icons marked with a star 
on the players’ boards, which show how 
many favor, secrets, and warbands they 
start with.
You’ll also notice places marked with a 
star on the players’ boards and around 
the map, which show where various 
markers start, the composition of the 
world deck, and that each discard pile 
starts with an extra card.
s
30 R

Group Agreements
Oath is a game about telling stories, and you can tell your stories the way you want. 
To make Oath fun for everyone, you’ll want to talk together about what play looks like.
The first and most important question to ask is about group persistence. Do you want to play 
this copy of Oath only with the group at the table, or are you all happy with new players coming 
in and out of the game? Oath is designed to support either! You’ll also want to ask whether 
people want to reserve certain Exile/Citizen boards for all games going forward, but you’ll have 
to be flexible if you’re playing with six players, since there are only five of those boards.
Most of the other questions deal with information. Though we give some rules for what 
information is private and public in the Law of Oath (page 11), we leave it to your group to agree 
on how to handle cases not explicitly described there. Some examples are listed below.
Sharing Card Draws. If someone takes the Search action and draws some cards, can they show 
these cards to other people? Do they have to show everyone, or can they show just one person?
We don’t usually allow showing drawn cards unless a new player needs help, since it can slow play down 
a lot. However, if your group is comfy with long scheming sessions that don’t include everyone, go for it.
Drawing Too Many Cards. If someone keeps drawing past a Vision in the world deck, or 
accidentally draws too many cards, do the cards go back without revealing them? Or do they get 
revealed? Do they go on the top of the relevant deck or discard pile, or on the bottom?
We generally just let people put it back where it was. It happens to everyone sometimes. It’s more fun to 
keep Visions as secret as possible, so we usually won’t ask the player to reveal what Vision they drew.
Discarded Cards. Let’s say someone discards a card and wants to make sure they remember 
where it is. Can they take notes? Can they expect honest answers to questions like “Does 
anyone remember whether this Vision is the one I discarded two turns ago?”
We don’t usually take notes, but also don’t worry much about card tracking, except sometimes for Visions.
The World Deck. The proportion of suits in the world deck will greatly affect strategy—for 
example, more Nomads means easier traveling! This is especially important if new players 
are coming into a game in progress. Will they feel bad knowing nothing while the more 
experienced players know more? Or maybe they want to go in blind, embracing the mystery of 
this world? If you’re playing with a more competitive group, does everyone want to know the 
full contents of the world deck at the end of each Chronicle?
We generally keep the cards going into the deck secret, but 
count how many of each suit are entering and leaving 
the deck in a given Chronicle. If a new player is 
coming into the game, we’ll ask them how 
much they want to know.
Redoing Actions. As someone takes a 
turn, they might want to roll back an 
action or even start their turn over. 
Will you allow this? If so, how much?
We usually let people roll back their 
turn as much as they want, as long as 
they’re not taking forever. However, 
we don’t let people roll back once they 
have traveled to a facedown site, 
peeked at a new relic card, or gotten 
deep enough in a Campaign that 
they learn the other player’s plans. 
Basically, if they learn something 
new, they shouldn’t roll back to a time 
before they learned that thing.
G
R 31

Weird Things About Oath
Drawing, Playing, and Discarding Cards
Draw three cards, unless... Whether you’re drawing from your region’s discard pile or the 
world deck, draw three cards. Stop drawing if you draw a Vision from the deck or if there are 
no cards left to draw, but don’t stop drawing if you draw a Vision from a discard pile!
When you play a card, pay attention to its restrictions. If it shows a tree ^c under its suit, it 
can only be played to your site. If it shows a person ^s, it can only be played to your advisers. 
Only Exiles can play the true Visions faceup, but anyone can play the Conspiracy.
You can always play a card as a facedown adviser. Doesn’t matter whether it has a tree ^c. 
Doesn’t matter whether it’s a Vision and you’re the Chancellor. You can always play it facedown!
Discard cards facedown. Even though most games have faceup discard piles, Oath doesn’t.
Discard to the next region out. Cards from the Cradle always discard to the top of the 
Provinces discard pile. Cards from the Provinces discard to the Hinterland. Cards from the 
Hinterland discard to the Cradle. Don’t discard a card to the same region it came from!
Using Cards
You can use the powers of cards at your pawn’s site and all cards you rule, whether they’re 
in your advisers or at remote sites. This is different from the Trade and Muster actions, which 
say “your site,” meaning the site where your pawn is, not other sites you rule. Basically, if 
you’re taking the actions on your board, you’re doing stuff at the site where your pawn is.
You can’t pay for a card power if the card already has favor or secrets on it. Likewise, you 
can’t trade or muster on a card that has favor or secrets on it.
Battle plans break these rules. You can only use a battle plan if you rule it, not simply by 
having your pawn at its site. Also, you can put favor or secrets on a battle plan to pay its cost 
even if it already has favor or secrets on it—you still can’t trade or muster on it, though!
Your Advisers
You don’t keep a hand of cards. Instead, you can hold up to three cards in your advisers. 
If it helps, think of your facedown advisers as a sort of hand. When you reveal a facedown 
adviser, it’s exactly like finishing a Search action—you can play it faceup or even discard it. 
You can’t discard faceup advisers unless you are forced to. Once you’ve played an adviser 
faceup, you cannot get rid of it just because you want to—you’ll only discard an adviser when 
you already have three and you want to play another, or when the game otherwise tells you to.
Campaigns
Here’s a couple quirks. You can target any of the defender’s sites, not just the site your pawn 
is at. The defender’s warbands add defense in equal amount, but do not add defense dice!
Sites with no warbands are ruled by bandits. Basically, treat bandits like a player. You can 
choose them as a defender and target any sites they rule on the map. They will use any battle 
plans they rule that have no cost. They don’t compete for victory goals, though. 
Outside campaigns, you can’t put warbands on empty sites. They’re ruled by bandits! To take 
rule of a site, you’ll need to campaign, target it, and be victorious. Once you rule a site and 
your pawn is there, you can drop off or pick up warbands, but you can’t pick up the last one.
Still have questions?
Visit our site: ledergames.com/oath
32 R