Venture into the unknown!
Enter a vast, underwater cosmos: a mysterious interconnected world of tentacles, sharp 
teeth, and black ink, where your survival depends on your ability to adapt to the unexpected.
LEARN THE COMPONENTS
1 REEF
The Reef starts with population, but when it runs 
out, it will stay empty unless an event brings more 
population into it. 
A species feeds on population in 
the Reef by using the forage icons 
on their traits:
1 OCEAN
The population in the Ocean is limitless. When 
the first Ocean zone runs out of population, take 
population from the next Ocean zone. The last 
round of the game triggers when the final Ocean 
zone runs out of population.
A species eats population from the 
Ocean when a gains icon is triggered:
24 SPECIES BOARDS
These boards represent your species. Each one has 
10 spaces for population tokens, but the species will 
overpopulate if a population token must be placed 
on the space with the fishbones. Overpopulation leads 
to disease, which means a huge decrease of 
that species’ population.
A species feeds on the population of another 
species by using the attack icons on their traits: 
1st Ocean
2nd Ocean
3rd Ocean
200 POPULATION TOKENS
Population is central to this game! You’ll want the population 
of your species to thrive because each token, regardless of 
color, is worth 1 point at the end of the game.

25 SCENARIO CARDS
Two random Scenario cards will be placed on the 
first two Ocean zones each game, encouraging 
players to explore a variety of playstyles.
1 CAMBRIAN EXPLOSION CARD
The game is divided into two halves, split by the start of the 
Cambrian Explosion. The rate of evolution doubles once you’ve 
entered the Cambrian Explosion.
120 SURFACE CARDS
There are 12 traits in the Surface deck, 10 
copies of each. During the game, you will 
adapt your species with traits to help them 
thrive in an ever-changing environment. 
89 DEEP CARDS
Every card in the Deep is 
unique and very powerful. 
4 PLAYER SCREENS
The Player Screens keep the scores hidden. Each turn, you 
will score 1 population from each of your species and place 
them in a score pile behind your Player Screen. 
4 BONUS TOKENS
The Bonus Tokens are used during 
setup to offset the disadvantage of 
going early in the player order.
The Surface traits represent the known 
world: things that have already been 
discovered by science. These traits bring 
consistency to the game’s ecosystem.
The Deep traits represent the unknown: 
things that have not yet been discovered 
by science. These traits bring excitement 
and variety into the game’s ecosystem.

The Reef
Surface
deck
Migrate
Number
Surface 
discard pile
Species 
boards
SETUP
1.	
Place the Reef and the Ocean board in the center of the play area. Stack the species boards 
nearby. 
2.	
Place the Cambrian Explosion card with the “Reef Variant” side face-down in the first Ocean zone.
3.	
Shuffle the Scenario cards and put 1 random Scenario card on the shelf of the 1st and 2nd Ocean 
zone. Return the rest of the Scenario cards to the box. 
4.	
Shuffle the Surface deck and deal 6 cards to each player, then place the deck face-down 
next to the Reef.
5.	
Shuffle the Deep deck and place two random cards face-up to form the Gene Pool.
6.	
Place the 60 reserve population tokens 
 in the “reserve” zip-lock bag. These will get used 
in the last round of the game.
Reef Variant
Oceans was originally designed to be played without Scenario cards and without the Deep. 
If anyone at the table has never played Oceans, we recommend playing the Reef Variant. 
Otherwise, prepare to venture into the Deep!
Reef Variant: Place the “Reef Variant” side face-up. 
Reef Variant: Use Abundance and Fertile instead of 2 random Scenario cards.
Reef Variant: Skip this step.

Gene Pool
Deep deck
The Ocean
7.	
Create a supply of population tokens according to your player count (60 population + 20 
population per player) and return any unused population tokens to the box.
a.	2 players: use these tokens 
 (100 total)
b.	3 players: use these tokens 
 
 (120 total)
c.	 4 players: use these tokens 
 
 
 (140 total)
8.	
Roughly divide the supply of population tokens into 4 piles and place each pile into the 4 
available locations: the Reef and the 3 Ocean zones. These piles do not need to be exact.
9.	
Reveal the top card from the Surface deck, and place it face-up to form the discard pile. Look 
at the Migrate number on the bottom left of the card, and move that number of population 
from both the Reef and the 1st Ocean zone into the 3rd Ocean zone.
10.	Give each player a Player Screen.
11.	 The start player is the person 
who can hold their breath the 
longest. Give each player the 
correct Bonus Token according 
to their place in turn order. 
Place the token behind your 
Player Screen to score at the 
end of the game.
1st player 2nd player 3rd player 4th player
2 players
3 players
6 points
4 players
7 points
6 points

The goal of Oceans is to thrive in an ever-changing ecosystem where food is scarce and predators 
lurk. The population of your species can grow by foraging from the Reef 
, attacking other 
species 
, or passively gaining from the Ocean 
. So evolve your species to best ensure 
their survival. At the end of the game, you will score 1 point for each population token you 
accumulated over the course of the game.
The core rules of Oceans as explained in this booklet will get modified during the game.
•	 Scenario cards override the core rules and apply to every species in play.
•	 Trait cards override the core rules and the Scenario cards, but they only apply to the 
species on which they are played. Most traits have an understood “This species” at the 
start of the textbox.
OVERVIEW
Players take turns in clockwise order, beginning with the start player. 
Each player’s turn consists of 4 phases:
1.	Playing Cards	 - Play 1 card (or 2 if the Cambrian Explosion has started)
2.	Feeding	
- Feed 1 species
3.	Aging	
- Age all of your species
4.	Drawing Cards	 - Discard & draw back up to 6 cards
PLAYING THE GAME

Multiple copies 
of traits are OK
A species may not have 
more than 3 traits unless 
explicitly allowed
A new species can go to the left, to the right, or 
between any two of your species
Phase 1: Playing Cards
Play 1 Surface card during this phase if the Cambrian Explosion has not yet started. Once the 
Cambrian Explosion has started, you will play 2 cards (Surface and/or Deep). Cards may be played 
to evolve a species, or to migrate population. 
In addition, you may remove traits from your species anytime during this phase. Surface cards are 
placed face-up in the discard pile and Deep cards are removed from the game. Check for anything 
that needs to be reevaluated now that the trait is no longer in play (Overpopulation, maximum 
trait count, etc).
EVOLVE: Most of your cards will be played as traits to evolve one of your species. You may play 
a trait on a new species or on an existing species. 
PLAYING A TRAIT ON A NEW SPECIES:
1.	Take a free species board from the supply and place it so that the fish are facing away from 
you. A new species may be placed on either side of your existing species, or in between 
any two of your existing species.
2.	Place the trait along the dark-blue border on the left of the species board. The species is 
now in play and the trait is now active.
PLAYING A TRAIT ON AN EXISTING SPECIES:
1.	Place the trait along the dark-blue border on the left of an existing species board. 
The trait is now active.
2.	A species may have multiple copies of the same trait (trait effects are cumulative), but the 
maximum number of traits on any species is 3 unless a card explicitly allows for more.
An explanation of each of the 12 Surface traits can be found in the Reference Guide.

Phase 2: Feeding
Choose 1 of your species to feed. It may either forage to take population from the Reef, or attack 
to take population from another species.
Important Feeding Rules
•	 A species may not forage or attack unless it would take at least 1 population. 
•	 A species may not forage or attack unless it has an open space on its species board.
•	 A species may not take more population than open spaces on its species board.
•	 You may never place a population token on the space with the fishbones unless it is the 
only available space on the species board.
•	 Whenever possible, a species must take its total forage or attack value. You may not 
choose to take less to avoid overpopulation. 
FORAGE: Add up the green icons on the traits of the feeding 
species to get its forage value. Take that number of population 
from the Reef and move them to the forager’s species board. 
A species that does not have any green icons on any of its trait 
cards automatically gets a forage value of 1.
A species may never forage if it has 
 regardless of 
whether it has other forage icons.
ATTACK: Choose any other species to target for an attack - 
including your own! Add up the red icons on the traits of the 
feeding species to get its attack value. Take that number of 
population from the target’s species board and move them to 
the attacker’s species board. A species that does not have any 
red icons on any of its trait cards automatically gets an attack 
value of 1. 
A species may never attack if it has 
 regardless of whether 
it has other attack icons.
There are several things that can happen during the feeding phase. 
They are covered under Core Concepts on page 9 & 10. 
This species has 
an attack value 
of 8 (3+3+2).
MIGRATE: Instead of using a card to evolve, you will 
sometimes use a card to migrate population. The number of 
population tokens you migrate is equal to the migrate number 
on the bottom left of the card you play. 
Choose a board location; either the Reef or an Ocean zone. 
Discard a card from your hand to move population to the 
chosen board location from one other board location. If the 
migrate number is greater than the available population, only 
move what is available. 
This is the 
migrate 
number
PLAYING THE GAME (CONTINUED)

Phase 4: Drawing Cards
Go through each of the following steps:
1.	You may draw 1 Deep card:
•	 Draw the top face-up card from a Gene Pool pile. If a Gene Pool pile is emptied, flip the top 
card of the Deep deck face-up to form a new pile.
- or -
•	 Draw 3 cards from the Deep deck. Choose 1 to keep in your hand, and place the others 
face-up on each Gene Pool pile.
2.	You may discard any number of Surface cards from your hand. You may not discard Deep cards.
3.	Draw from the Surface deck until you have a total of 6 cards in your hand (Surface and Deep). If 
the Surface deck runs out, shuffle the discard pile to form a new deck. 
Your turn is now over, and play passes to the player to your left.
Phase 3: Aging
If the Cambrian Explosion has not yet started, remove 1 population from each of your species and 
place it behind your player screen in your score pile. If the Cambrian Explosion has started, place 
2 population from each of your species into your score pile. Score all of your population if you 
cannot score the full amount.
A species goes extinct if it is not able to age the full amount. When a species goes extinct, discard 
all of its traits and put the species board back into the communal supply.
Remember: 
•	 Although only 1 of your species will feed each turn, all of your species age!
•	 If your species is reduced to 0 population on another player’s turn, it does not go extinct. 
You will have an opportunity to feed it during your next turn before your aging phase.

Defensive Traits
Traits with black textboxes are defensive traits that 
may prevent a species from attacking it. Some 
defensive traits have a shell icon. Each shell icon 
reduces the number of population taken from an 
attack by the number in the shell icon. Shell icons 
don’t reduce the attack value of the attacking 
species, just the number of population it takes.
Adjacency Arrows
Every species in Oceans lives in the same environment: the left-most species of each 
player is adjacent to the right-most species of the next player. Many traits trigger based 
on the feeding of an adjacent species. The arrow icon at the bottom of a trait refers to 
the species immediately adjacent to that side.
Species take 8 fewer 
population than 
their attack value 
when attacking 
this species
CORE CONCEPTS

Overpopulation
After each feeding, resolve everything that was triggered from the 
feeding, then check for overpopulation. 
Overpopulation occurs if any species has a population token on 
the space with the fishbones. Each species that overpopulates loses 
population until only 5 population remain on the species board. The 
owner of the species may put the lost population in the Reef or in any 
one Ocean zone.
If a species overpopulates when resolving its own feeding, it may 
not feed again this turn even if it has a trait such as Tentacled that 
would normally allow it to feed again. Triggering another species to 
overpopulate does not end your feeding.
A species will overpopulate 
if it has a token on the 
fishbones when you check for 
overpopulation
Gains
Feeding may trigger a gains icon on another species, including a species belonging to 
another player. When a species gains population, it takes the number of population in 
the blue gains icon from the 1st Ocean zone. If the 1st Ocean zone is empty (or becomes 
empty), continue taking population from the 2nd Ocean zone, and from the 3rd Ocean zone 
if the 2nd becomes empty. If the 3rd Ocean zone becomes empty, place the 60 “reserve” 
population into the 3rd Ocean zone so that every triggered trait is able to take the proper 
amount of population. 
.
Feeding Example:
If the Tentacled species on the left attacks the Filter Feeder on the right, it will take 1 
population from the Filter Feeder’s species board. Additionally, the species in the middle 
will gain 1 population from the Symbiotic trait, and gain 2 population from each of 
the Bottom Feeder traits (for a total of 5 population). If the Tentacled species attacked 
again, it would take another population and the middle species would gain another 5 
population (leading to overpopulation). 

SCENARIO CARD ICONS
SCENARIO CARDS
There are 2 types of Scenario cards. Blue 
Scenario cards have ongoing effects, and 
Purple Scenario cards have events that get 
triggered. Blue Scenario cards are active 
whenever there is no population in its Ocean 
zone. Purple Scenario cards get triggered 
each time the Ocean zone is emptied. This 
might happen multiple times during a game if 
population is migrated (or moved because of 
a Deep card cost) back onto its Ocean zone.
Scenario cards activate when the last 
population is removed from its Ocean zone. 
Make sure to resolve everything triggered (like 
gains and overpopulating) before activating 
the Scenario card. 
Active Scenario
Inactive Scenario
	
Scenario cards with the teeth icon create a more aggressive environment.
	
Scenario cards with the diamond icon are more complex.
	
Scenario cards with the lightning icon are events. 
Creatures must adapt for survival, not only to compete with other species in the ecosystem, 
but also in response to various environmental opportunities and threats that arise. These 
influences are represented by Scenario cards.
Scenario cards are designed to change the feel of the game. Some Scenarios make 
it more difficult for your species to thrive. Others lead to more aggressive gameplay 
between the players. We put icons on the Scenario card to help you tailor your 
game. During setup, make sure to remove any Scenario cards that might hinder 
your group’s experience.

The Cambrian Explosion starts when the 1st Ocean zone becomes empty, and continues until the 
end of the game. Remove the Cambrian Explosion card from the 1st Ocean zone as a reminder 
that it will never be deactivated. If the Cambrian Explosion begins during a player’s playing cards 
phase, they may immediately play a second card (Surface or Deep). If it begins afterwards, they 
may not return to their playing cards phase to play a second card. 
During the Cambrian Explosion:
•	 You play 2 cards per turn instead of 1.
•	 You score 2 population during aging instead of 1.
•	 You may play Deep cards as well as Surface cards. 
Deep cards have an extra cost (see page 13).
CAMBRIAN EXPLOSION
The Cambrian Explosion is a period in Earth’s history when a proliferation of new 
species came into existence. It took place over 500 million years ago and lasted for 
about 25 million years. Scientists don’t know what caused the Cambrian Explosion but it 
was likely due to an increase in oceanic oxygen levels.

THE DEEP
Lurking deep below the surface lie mysteries so bizarre they seem unnatural when first 
discovered: massive predators, glowing horrors, and beautiful luminescent creatures. These 
species hardly seem possible in the realm of biology, and yet they turn out to be real. The 
Deep represents the wonder of scientific discovery, with traits ranging from actual marine 
biology to the fantastic. Venture into the deep at your own risk!
Every card in the Deep is unique, powerful, and has a cost if you use it to evolve a species! 
They may be played to evolve a species or to migrate population. 
To evolve a species: 
1)	 Pay the cost of the Deep card you are about to play by moving population equal to its 
migrate number from your score pile to the Reef or any one Ocean zone.
2)	Place the Deep trait on a new or existing species.
To migrate population: 
You do not need to pay a cost when using a Deep card to migrate population. Remove the 
card from the game after playing it.
The Deep Deck
Gene Pool
TAILORED FOR YOU
The Deep is unique in its design. You can tailor it to your personal tastes without 
hurting the balance of the game. After each game, we encourage you to remove 
any Deep cards you didn’t like. Additionally, you can add cards (even multiple 
copies) that bring you joy. Over time, you can create a version of Oceans that will 
produce the experience most fun to your game group; a legacy of your adventures 
in the Deep!
Find additional cards, expansion cards, and promo cards to evolve your copy of the 
Deep at www.NorthStarGames.com/theDeep.

END OF GAME
The last round of the game is triggered immediately when every Ocean zone is completely empty 
of population. Place the 60 population tokens from the “reserve” zip-lock bag into the 3rd Ocean 
zone and continue playing as normal. The game ends when the final player in the turn order 
completes their turn, even if there is still population in the Reef.
Players score:
•	 1 point for each population in their score pile.
•	 1 point for each population on their surviving species.
•	 the points listed on their Bonus Token.
The player with the highest score wins. In case of a tie, the tied player with the most trait 
cards on their species wins. If there is still a tie, the first person to get a job on a fishing boat 
in Alaska is the winner!

www.NorthStarGames.com
follow us:
CREDITS
GAME DESIGN
Game Designers:	
Nick Bentley, Dominic Crapuchettes, Ben Goldman, Brian O’Neill
	
 @Nick_Bentley, @DCrapuchettes, @BenjaminGoldman
Project Lead:	
Dominic Crapuchettes
Game Developers:	
Dominic Crapuchettes, Ben Goldman, Julia Williamson
ART
Art Director:	
Ben Goldman
Box Art: 	
Catherine Hamilton, Guillaume Ducos
The Reef & Surface Cards: 	
Catherine Hamilton
Deep Cards: 	
- see each card -
Graphic Designer:	
Ben Goldman
Rulebooks & Player Aids:	
Jacoby O’Connor
Art & Design Advisor:	
Bree Woodward
WRITING
Rulebook:	
Dominic Crapuchettes, Jonathan H. Liu, Julia Williamson 
Rulebook Editing:	
Jonathan H. Liu, Van Willis, Apinya Ramakomud
Trait Card Editing:	
Patrick Masterson, Jonathan H. Liu
PRODUCTION
Production Manager:	
Apinya Ramakomud, Rick Butler
Box Insert:	
Apinya Ramakomud
PLAYTESTING
Playtester Coordinator:	
Dominic Crapuchettes, Ben Goldman, Julia Williamson
Each playtester logged 15 - 30 games, rated every card to make them more balanced and fun, and (in total) 
contributed over 10,000 game design comments on Discord. I also want to give a special thanks to the hundreds of 
other people who played games with these playtest groups.
Content Contributors:	
Patrick Masterson, Brandon Jacobson, Hanzou, Jonathan H. Liu, 
	
Julia Williamson, Josh Baird, Christian Scott, Keith Bishop
Key Playtesters:	
Brandon Jacobson, Stephen Riddell, Steve Miller, Aaron Wilson, 
	
Stephen Kunz, Robert Hall, Christian Scott, Patrick Masterson, 
	
Keith Bishop, Michael Bauer, Jay Wrobel
Official Playtesters:	
Barb Mattson, Bryan Kromrey, Charlie Ketchum, Christopher McCleary, David Chervony, David Minken, Dorianne Bernier, 
Drew Tschetter, Eric Meyers, Evan & Katherine Turner, Filip Kevely, Heather & Chris Champe-White, James Nelson, 
Jason McMillan, Jeff Buchmiller, Jim & Mary Emmerich, John J. Cord, A12John Parker, Josephine Baker, 
Justin Norris, Katrina Demeanour, Matt Kiser, Melissa Speirs, Michael Gemmell, Michael W Kuntz, MN/BR & BC/JZ, 
Nathan Ward-Tyrrell , Paul Ogle, Pedro Goins, Pierce Oeflein, Reese & Grace Frerichs, Ricardo Morales, Ross J. Konopaski, 
Russ DeLuca, Ryan Fish, Sarah Eckert, Shiyue Xu, Simona Dostalova, Steve McLaren, Steve Wright & family, 
Susannah C Shissler, the Baird family, the Barber family, Tierany Tobiasson, Tim O’Flynn, Tony L. Thomas, 
Travis and Megan Roberts, Travis Morton, Trey Elliott, Zackary Green
Additional thanks to:	
•	 over 200 people who logged 1 - 10 games in our database without compensation.
•	 all of our Kickstarter backers for trusting us.
•	 Meeple Source for beautifully painted wooden fish that can be purchased to upgrade Oceans. 
•	 Dog Might for a deluxe wooden card holder that can be purchased to upgrade Oceans. 
•	 the community of avid board gamers on BoardGameGeek.