Age: 8+
Number of players: 2
Copyrights: © 2008 Foxmind Games NV and Don Green. All rights reserved
Publisher: Published by FoxMind Games BV
Stadhouderskade 125hs, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Under license from FoxMind Games NV"
Distribution: In the USA
	
 FoxMind USA
 	
 2710 Thomes Ave
	
 Suite 1079
	
 Cheyenne, WY 82001, USA
	
 FoxMind Canada
	
 4710 St. Ambroise Unit 220-A
	
 Montreal, PQ, H4C 2C7, Canada
Website: www.FoxMind.com
Dedicated website: www.octi.net
Each year, players from around the globe compete in an Octi tournament as part of the 
MindLab Olympics. Players as young as 8 are drawn to this unique game of strategy 
and creativity. Octi is truly an outstanding game that can be appreciated by the novice 
and expert alike.
We have chosen Octi, for our MindLabs around the world, as the ideal game to teach 
children how to analyze and develop winning strategies. Octi can be learned in min­
utes by anyone over 7 years. It is a cornerstone in our program of developing strong 
cognitive skills.
Dan Gendelman - International chess master / president of MindLab International
Acclaimed as one of the great modern strategy games, Octi is easy to learn and fun 
for strategy-lovers of all ages. What makes Octi's patented game system distinctive? 
Octi pieces grow - they become more powerful and agile. Each turn, players are pre­
sented with the choice of moving their pieces or improving them. By giving players the 
freedom to design their pieces, Octi unleashes a new level of creativity.
The Tenth Anniversary Edition of Octi allows players to enjoy all of the variants of Octi 
that have sprung up around the globe. Basic Octi takes just minutes to learn and is 
suitable for players 8 years and older. Fast Octi is played on a larger board with more 
pieces and opens up a new level of tactical possibilities. Octi Classic is a tournament-
quality game that will impress the most discerning board game enthusiast.
Rules, puzzles, and on-line opponents may be found at www.octi.net

Game content
Double-sided board (6x7 board on one side and 9x9 board on the other) 
7 pods of each color (red and black)
50 prongs, to be inserted into the pods 
Game rules 
About Octi
Octi is a strategy game invented by Prof. Donald Green of Yale University. 
The simple rules and small number of pieces yield surprisingly deep strate­
gic possibilities, making it an ideal game for youngsters, casual gamers, and 
serious strategy fans alike. 
At its core, Octi comes down to a choice between moving one’s pieces or 
making them stronger. Strategy in Octi is thus a matter of balancing one’s 
wish to move toward the target with the need to invest in strength and mobil­
ity, while also thwarting the opponent’s plans. 
Octi can be played in three ways, and the easiest way to learn how to play is 
to start with the basic version. 
Octi – Basic Game Rules 
Components used
6 x 7 board 
4 pods of each color 
12 prongs for each player 
The Octi board used in the basic game is a 6x7 grid. There are 8 bases, 
four for each player, designated by differently colored squares. (See game 
example). 
Each player starts with 4 pods of their own color (so-called “friendly pods”), 
on each of their 4 bases, and 12 prongs in reserve. The arrow on top of 
each pod is oriented so that it points towards the opponent. 
IMPORTANT: The pods should never be rotated during the game; the ar­
rows should always point toward the opponent’s side of the board.
 
Object of the game (Basic rules)
To be the player to first land a pod on any of the opponent’s bases.

Rules
A pod may not move until it has been equipped with at least one prong. Once 
equipped, a pod may move in any of the directions indicated by its prongs. 
On each turn, a player performs ONE of the following actions: 
1) Add one prong to any friendly pod, thereby enabling the pod to move in 
that direction on subsequent turns. 
2) Move a friendly pod to an empty, adjacent square. You may only move a 
pod one square and only in a direction for which it is equipped with a prong. 
(Remember - when moving a pod, be sure not to rotate it.)
3) Make a jump, or series of jumps. A friendly pod may jump over pods of 
either color, in any direction indicated by its prongs. A player may make 
a series of jumps in a single turn. The square immediately behind each 
jumped pod must be vacant, and the player may not jump twice over the 
same square in the same turn. At the end of the turn, the player may choose 
whether to capture some or all of the pods, of either color, that were jumped, 
or leave them in place. A player is not obligated to jump when presented 
with the possibility – jumping is always optional. All captures are made at the 
conclusion of the turn. 
Capturing prongs: A player who captures a pod, of either color, removes all 
the prongs from the captured pod. These prongs can be used by the player 
in subsequent turns. 
Game End
The first player to land one of their pods on any of their opponent’s bases 
wins the game. 

Game example
Rules for Octi Extreme (Octi-X) – Fast Game rules
Components used
9x9 board 
7 pods of each color 
25 prongs for each player 
Octi-X is played on the 9x9 board. 
The basic rules of Octi apply, so please read them if you had not yet done 
so.The Octi-X Fast Game uses, in addition, the following rules: 
Each player starts with 1 pod on each of their 3 bases; 4 pods and 25 
prongs are kept in reserve. 
Object of the game
To be the first player to land one friendly pod on any of the opponent’s 
bases. 
Turn No.1
• Black adds prong.
• Red adds prong
Turn No.4
• Black adds prong 
• Red jumps but elects 
 not to capture
Turn No.5
• Black double jumps and 
 lands on the opponent’s
 base to win the game
Turn No.3
• Black adds prong
• Red moves forward
Turn No.2
• Black moves forward 
• Red adds prong

Playing Octi-X
On each turn, players must perform ONE of the following actions: 
1) Add a prong to a friendly pod, as in the basic game. 
2) Move a pod, as in the basic game, but with the added possibility of stack­
ing friendly pods (see below). 
3) Make a jump, or series of jumps, as in the basic game. Stacks of pods 
may make simultaneous moves and jumps (see below). 
4) Bring a pod from their reserve into play and place it on an empty or oc­
cupied friendly base. The pod enters play with no prongs. 
Octi-X allows players to stack two or more friendly pods on top of each other. 
A player may build a stack by moving their pod to a square occupied by a 
friendly pod or by bringing a pod into play from their reserve and placing it on 
top of another pod occupying a friendly base. 
When moving a stack, any or all stacked pods may move or jump simultane­
ously in any direction allowed by their prongs. 
Note: Pods making simultaneous moves ignore each other for purposes of 
jumping. If one pod of a stack moves into a square, other pods of the stack, 
provided they are equipped to move in that direction, may also move into the 
same square. But, in a single turn, one cannot move one pod from the stack 
and then jump that pod with another pod from the stack. 
When jumping over a stack of pods, the player may select whether to cap­
ture any or all of the stacked pods. 
 
Rules for Octi-X – Classic 
The classic version expands further on the Octi-X Fast Game rules. 

The Octi-X classic uses the same setup as the Octi-X Fast Game. 
Object of the game
The winner is the first player to occupy, simultaneously, all three of the oppo­
nent’s bases. 
Additional rules: In addition to the Fast Play rules, players have the following 
options: 
1) Liberate a friendly pod that was previously captured. A player who oc­
cupies an opponent’s base may decide, as a move, to liberate a friendly pod 
previously captured by either player. The liberated pod, empty of all prongs, 
is then stacked on top of one of the player’s pods currently occupying a 
friendly or enemy base. 
2) In addition to being able to introduce a reserve pod on a friendly base, a 
player may, under the Octi-X classic rules, stack a reserve pod on top of a 
friendly pod occupying an opponent’s base. 
Note: A ‘reserve’ pod is a pod that has never been brought onto the board. A 
‘captured’ pod is a pod that was removed from the board by either player. All 
the prongs of a captured pod remain with the capturing player even if such 
pod is subsequently liberated. It is important to keep captured pods sepa­
rate from reserve pods as the rules for bringing them into play differ. 
For examples and answers to frequently asked questions about Octi, please 
visit the sites www.octi.net or FoxMind.com/Octi