Each Loki card has two different actions as 
options for the players. When playing a 
Loki card that player must choose which 
of those actions they want to use. Once a 
Loki card is used it is removed from the 
game, meaning players can never use 
trickery more than eight times in a game. 
Players should be as tricky as the trickster 
to make the best use of their cards.
There are four types of Loki cards. 
Players should read the explanations to 
these cards before the game to make the 
best use of them. Any actions which move 
or rotate land cards cannot be used on a 
card which currently has a raven on it.
After a loop card has been played, 
players can use more loop cards to add to 
that first loop, or can rotate the loop 
cards as though they are land cards.
The loop action and the slide action 
will sometimes cause land cards to 
overlap. Always place the card being 
moved this turn on top of the other card. 
If sliding a land card onto a loop card, the 
additional section is now part of the loop, 
and the section which was covered is 
ignored. The card which is partially 
covered can no longer be moved by any 
card actions – treat it as though there is a 
raven on it.
The top space of the land card is now part of the loop. 
After a player has finished playing cards, 
they draw 3 cards to end their turn. 
These cards can be taken in any order 
from either draw pile. 
If a player now has more than 7 cards, 
they must immediately choose cards to 
discard without taking actions until they 
have 7 cards left. As usual, flight cards 
would be put in the discard pile, while 
Loki cards would be removed from 
the game.
The game ends when a player moves 
their raven into the final space on their 
opponent’s side. That player is the 
winner! However, if that player went 
first, the other player has one more turn 
to get to their raven to the finish point. If 
they manage it, whichever player has the 
most cards left in their hand wins. If it’s 
still a tie, then the ravens must race again 
to determine a winner!
Odin’s Ravens
Game Design by Thorsten Gimmler
Cover and Card art by Johan Egerkrans
Osprey Publishing, part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
PO Box 883, Oxford, OX1 9PL, UK
© 2015 Thorsten Gimmler & Osprey Publishing Ltd. 
All Rights Reserved.
www.ospreygames.co.uk
Move your raven 1 space forward on the path, regardless of the land types.
Move the other raven 1 space backwards on the path.
Rotate a land card 180°. 
Remove a land card. Both flight paths will be reduced by one space.
Swap any two land cards without rotating them.
Slide one land card by one space (as shown), so that one flight path changes and 
the other gets shorter. The section which is outside the flight paths is ignored.
Draw two extra cards in whichever combination you prefer.
Draw an extra land card and put it alongside one of the flight paths as 
shown. The extra card adds a loop to make the flight path longer. The ravens 
now have to fly all the way around the loop, as shown on the dotted line.

Shuffle the land cards and place a line of 
16 cards between the players. Each card 
contains two spaces, and these spaces 
form two routes down which the ravens 
will fly. When laying out the cards, make 
sure that no two spaces in a row are the 
same. If they are, rotate the newest card 
180° to change the space. If there are 
still two land spaces of the same type, 
place that card at the bottom of the deck 
and replace it with a new land card. 
Place the deck of remaining land cards 
face down nearby.
Both players place their ravens at one 
end of the land cards, each in front of 
one route. When a raven reaches the last 
land card, it switches to the other side of 
it and flies back along the other route.
Each player takes the 25 flight cards 
and 8 Loki cards of their colour, shuffles 
them separately and places them face 
down as two draw piles. Players then 
draw 5 cards as their starting hand. Each 
player can choose to draw cards from 
either pile in whichever combination 
they like, for example 3 flight cards 
and 2 Loki cards.
Whichever player lost the last 
race should go first.
The first player to use the flight paths to 
fly to the end of the world and back is 
the winner.
On their turn, players can choose how 
many cards from their hand they want to 
play. Each type of card allows players to 
take a different action. Players can take 
as many or as few actions as they like, as 
long as they have the right cards available. 
The actions are:
FLIGHT – using a flight card to 
move a raven along the flight path.
TRICKERY – using a Loki card to 
take one of the actions on the card.
To move their raven, a player must play a 
flight card that shows the same land type 
as the next path space in front of their raven. 
For example, if the next land space in front 
of a raven is a forest, the player must play a 
forest flight card to move into this space. If 
there is a row of land spaces of the same 
type in front of a raven, the player can use 
the matching flight card to move the raven 
over all of these spaces, placing the raven 
at the end of the row. With some luck, and 
clever use of the Loki cards, a player can 
arrange to fly over three or more land spaces 
of the same type at the same time.
The player plays a mountain flight card and can move 
their raven 2 land spaces to the second mountain space. 
If a player has no flight cards that match 
the land space in front of their raven, they 
can use any two flight cards of the same 
type as though it was whichever flight 
card they need. The players put their used 
flight cards face up on the table as a discard 
pile. If the draw pile of flight cards ever 
runs out, shuffle up the discards to form a 
new draw pile.
Here a player plays 2 forest flight cards to move to the 
mountain land space. 
2 Wooden Ravens
40 Land Cards
50 Flight Cards 
(25 for each player)
16 Loki Cards 
(8 for each player)
E
very morning, Odin, the Allfather of the Norse Gods, 
sends his two ravens, Huginn and Muninn out into 
Midgard to watch over the land. Each player will take a 
raven and use their flight cards to move them across the different 
landscapes of the world which we know as Earth.
After thousands of years of taking this trip every day, the 
ravens have turned it into a race! They will head in opposite directions 
around the world, and the first one who returns to the starting point 
will be the winner. They can also ask for help from Loki, god of tricks and 
mischief, to make their path easier or the other raven’s path trickier! With 
clever use of flight cards and Loki cards, a raven can move quickly over the 
world and win the race back to Odin’s side.