Game Design by Steve Jackson
Ogre Line Editor: Daniel Jew
Chief Operating Officer and Print Buyer: Phil Reed
Rulebook graphic design by Richard Meaden • Box graphic design by Alex Fernandez
Original Ogre image created by Winchell Chung
Map graphics by Alex Fernandez, Gabby Ruenes, and Ben Williams, based on original paintings by Denis Loubet
Rules illustrated by Winchell Chung, Richard Meaden, Brandon Moore, Alvin Helms, Cundo Rabaudi, and John Zeleznik
3-D units created by Richard Kerr, Paul Chapman, Will Schoonover, Gabby Ruenes, Ben Williams, and Sam Mitschke
Counter art by Gabby Ruenes, Ben Williams, Alex Fernandez, Alvin Helms, J. Kira Hamilton, Marc Beaudette, Matt Doughty, and Alex Kosarek
Counter design by Phil Reed and Gabby Ruenes
Production by Alex Fernandez, Alex Kosarek, Gabby Ruenes, and Ben Williams
Production Manager: Sam Mitschke • Production Assistant: Bridget Westerman • Insert tray design by Sam Mitschke
2009-2011 Development: Fox Barrett, Randy Scheunemann, and Will Schoonover
Prepress and Proofing: Monica Stephens • Videography: Sam Mitschke, Phil Reed, and Alex Kosarek • Photography: Alex Kosarek
Ogre Theme: Tom Smith • Speakers-to-Kickstarter: Fox Barrett and Brandon McClelland • Director of Sales: Ross Jepson
Rulebook/Scenario Book Art Sponsors: Brett Bozeman, Ian Finn, Keith Holkins, Dan Massey, and Magnus Karlsson
Extra Counter Sheet Sponsors: Robert Gurskey, Thomas Heysek, Michael Johnston, 
and over 100 Black Rose Mercenary supporters organized by Daniel Jew and Chris Tham
Copyright © 1977-2013 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Ogre, the distinctive likeness of the Ogre, and the all-seeing 
pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. All rights reserved. Rules version 6.0 (April 2013).
This edition of Ogre includes the rules and map originally released as G.E.V., plus 
some material first introduced in the supplements Shockwave, Battlefields, and Ogre 
Reinforcement Pack.
If you first enjoyed these games 20 or 30 years ago . . . I’m glad to see you back. If 
they’re new to you, welcome to the world of Ogre!
This edition has been completely revised and reorganized. We have retained the 
case numbering system, medieval though it is, because it makes cross-referencing so 
easy. This rulebook is also available as a searchable PDF. (See ogre.sjgames.com for 
this and other support material.)
Ogre was the first game I designed; it was released in 1977. Now, 36 years later, the 
6th Edition is intended to be the definitive Ogre/G.E.V. set. I don’t expect that it will 
ever be reprinted. This isn’t the kind of thing you can repeat. But I wanted to do this, 
and a lot of you have told me you wanted to see it. I hope you enjoy it.
– Steve Jackson
NOTES ON THE SIXTH EDITION
The cover of the first (1977) edition 
of Ogre, drawn by Winchell Chung. 
The game came in a sandwich bag 
and cost $2.95. Both the map and 
counters were black and white.
STEVE JACKSON GAMES
VE JACKSON GA
ogre.sjgames.com
G
i
b S
J
k
®

GAME COMPONENTS
 
►Read This First sheet. We hope you read that first.
 
►Rulebook. You’re reading it.
 
►Scenario book. Lots of scenarios for one or more maps.
 
►Reference sheets. Two sheets, one for each player, with the most important charts 
and tables.
 
►Counters. The red units represent the North American Combine; the blue units 
represent the Paneuropean Federation. Other colors, sponsored by various 
supporters, provide “third force” units. The Ogre counters are in several different 
colors to make it easier to tell them apart in a multi-Ogre scenario. 
 
►3-D Counters. Constructible miniatures for Ogres, Command Posts, and large 
buildings. Assembly directions are on the Read This First sheet. The 3-D counters 
can be disassembled again, but we suggest you leave them set up.
 
►Counter Tray (the Ogre Garage) to hold 3-D counters. Note: We recommend always 
keeping this on top when you store the game!
 
►Maps. There are five different maps in this set, each in two pieces. The orange map 
is for the original Ogre scenarios. The four green G.E.V. maps (so called because 
they first appeared in G.E.V. and its supplements) are geomorphic and can be 
combined to create even larger gameboards.
 
►Map overlays. These are die-cut pieces which can be used to change the map terrain.
 
►Ogre Record Sheets. These are used to record damage to the Ogres. They are 
laminated, and can be used with many sorts of erasable marker, but always test 
on the edge of the sheet before you start checking off the boxes. You may prefer to 
copy them (or download the free PDF from ogre.sjgames.com).
 
►Two custom six-sided dice. Which, thanks to Kickstarter support, are 19mm and 
acrylic!
1 – Introduction and 
 
Starting Scenarios ...4
2 – Maps ......................5
3 – Units ......................6
4 – Turn Sequencing ...10
5 – Movement .............11
6 – Ramming .............13
7 – Combat .................14
8 – Overrun Combat ....18
9 – The Train ..............19
10 – Cruise Missiles ....20
11 – Buildings ............22
12 – Lasers ................22
13 – Optional Rules .....23
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The designer would like to acknowledge 
the following sources of inspiration and/or 
data: Keith Laumer’s “Bolo” series, Colin Kapp’s 
“Gottlos,” Robert Heinlein’s Starship Troopers, Joe 
Haldeman’s The Forever War, and Tanks, by Armin 
Halle and Carlo Demand.
Original Ogre playtesters: Howard Thompson, 
Elton Fewell, Ben Ostrander, Robert Taylor, Mark 
Huffman, Frank Blazek, Stewart Norris, Nick 
Schuessler, Susan Tunnell, and many others.
Original G.E.V. playtesters: Elton Fewell, Ben 
Ostrander, Robert Taylor, Howard Thompson, 
Joe Vail, and Bill Williams, as well as blindtesters 
Alexander Epstein, Ron Fisher, Robert A. Mitchell, 
Lorent West, Dave Mohr, Mike Easterday, Steve 
Wijinberg, Richard Barnhart, Gary Huska, Ben 
V. Kloepper, Roger Cooper, Dusty R. Brown, Jim 
Behringer, and Steve Rabin.
Original 
Shockwave 
playtesters: 
Warren 
Spector, Allen Varney, Jim Gould, Keith E. Carter, 
Graham Chaffee, Dave Grenfell, David Dunham, 
Chris Frink, Rob McCarter, Lawrence Person, Creede 
Lambard, David Noel, and Geff Underwood. Special 
thanks to Craig York for his suggestions.
Original Ogre Reinforcement Pack playtesters: 
Stephen Beeman, Heath Culp, Ben Ellinger, Bob 
Faulkner, Scott Haring, Bing Hsu, Bob Marrinan, 
Michael Moe, Ray Morriss, Lee Nichols, John Phelps, 
Tim Robinson, Ian Straus, Gale Turner, Mike Vragel, 
Jon Wolfe, and Neil Woodward.
Original Battlefields playtesters: Henry Cobb, 
Paul Grogan, Ben Kimball, Richard Meaden, Phil 
Reed, Jonathan Woodward, and the members of the 
Ogre Mailing List.
Valuable rules-checking assistance came from 
many supporters on the Kickstarter list, with special 
thanks to Daniel Jew, Joshua Megerman, Kevin 
Roust, David Rock, Jeff Vandine, and David Walend. 
Thanks also go to the many gamers whose 
constructive criticism of early editions made later 
ones possible – and much better. They included 
Keith Gross, Robert Schultz, Kenneth Schultz, 
A. Mark Ratner, J. Richard Jarvinen, Lawrence 
Duffield, Tracy Harms, Henry Cobb, Greg Costikyan, 
Ron Manns, Steve Perrin, Mark Schulzinger, Ben 
V. Kloepper, Gregory F. Hogg, Ronald Artigues, 
Jim Behringer, Steve Rabin, Edward A. Villareal, 
Mark Marmor, Robert A. Mitchell, Gary M. Huska, 
Alexander M. Epstein, Ron Fisher, Jay S. Michael, 
and many, many others.
Thanks to an amazingly successful 
Kickstarter project (www.kickstarter.com), 
we were able to print more than three times 
as many copies of this edition as originally 
planned. Supporters pledged $923,680 in 
advance orders, shattering the record for 
boardgaming support on Kickstarter. This 
made it possible to print four single-sided 
G.E.V. maps instead of two double-sided 
ones, to add the blueprint poster, to create 
the free recordkeeping app (apps.sjgames.
com), and to add many more counters. Five 
supporters pledged $3,000 each to sponsor 
sheets of counters that otherwise would not 
have been in the set! Several special counter 
sheets have been sponsored by individuals 
or companies who will offer them for sale 
as mini-supplements. And thanks to stretch 
goals made during the Kickstarter campaign, 
we have committed to release a supplement, 
re-release the miniatures, make a computer 
game happen, and more.
If your game box has a special seal, 
you have the Kickstarter edition, which 
includes six exclusive sheets of counters, 
including some units that were only added 
as Kickstarter stretch goals, such as the 
Vulcan, the Combat Engineers, and the 
Heavy Weapons Teams. See ogre.sjgames.
com for rules for these units, which must be 
considered preliminary until they are shaken 
out by use . . .
Our supporters at $100 and above are 
listed on the box. Thank you all!
RULES SECTIONS

Technology governs strategy. The tank-type vehicle, written off 
by many at the end of the 20th century, ruled the battlefields of the 
21st.
Several factors led to the reappearance of mechanized warfare. 
The first, of course, was the development of biphase carbide (BPC) 
armor. Stronger than any steel, it was also so light that even an air-
cushion vehicle could carry several centimeters of protection. The 
equivalent of a ton of TNT was needed to breach even this much BPC 
armor – which meant that, in practice, nothing less than a tactical 
nuclear device was likely to be effective.
Infantry, which had for a time eclipsed the tank, declined in 
importance. Although an infantryman could carry and direct a 
tactical nuclear missile, he had to be extensively (and expensively) 
protected to survive the nuclear battlefield. Thus, the “powered 
suit” was developed. Four cm of BPC, jet-equipped, it could guard 
a man for about a week (in increasing discomfort) from shrapnel, 
background radiation, and biochem agents. However, the cost of 
equipping infantry reduced their value. They were still more flexible 
and maneuverable than armor, and now they were almost as fast – 
but they were no longer cheaper.
Long-range nuclear missiles, which had been expected to make 
a mockery of “conventional” operations, likewise declined in value 
as jamming technology and laser countermeasures improved. 
Without satellite guidance, no missile could hit a less-than-city-
sized target at more than 30 km . . . and no combatant could keep 
a spy satellite operational for over an hour. Missiles big enough to 
carry jam-proof guidance systems were sitting ducks for the big 
laser batteries – for, although lasers had proved too temperamental 
and fragile for battlefield use, they were fine as permanent AA 
units, defending rear areas.
Thus, the tank-type vehicle – fast, heavily armed and armored, 
able to break through enemy positions and exploit disorganization 
– returned to wide use. And, once again, planners fretted over 
priorities. More guns? More armor? More speed? Increase one, and 
lose on the others? Increase all, and build fewer units?
Some interesting compromises appeared. The 21st-century 
infantryman, especially with the later “heavy powered suit,” was 
a tank in his own right, at least by 20th-century standards. The 
armed hovercraft or ground effect vehicle (GEV), equipped with 
multileaf spring skirts for broken ground, could make 150 km/h on 
any decent terrain, and nearly 200 on desert or water. Conventional 
tanks were slower but tougher. All fired tactical nuclear shells.
The ultimate development of the tank-type weapon, though, 
was the cybernetic attack vehicle. The original tanks had terrorized 
unsophisticated infantry. The cybertanks terrorized everyone,
and with good reason. They were bigger (up to 30 meters), faster 
(hovercraft models proved too vulnerable, but atomic-powered 
treads moved standard units at 90 km/h or better), and more heavily 
armed (some had firepower equal to an armor company). And two 
to three meters of BPC armor made them nearly unstoppable. What 
made the cybertank horrifying, though, was its literal inhumanity. 
No crew was carried; each unit was wholly computer-controlled. 
Although true artificial intelligence had existed (in deep secrecy) 
as early as 2010, and fully autonomous factories and military 
installations were in wide use by the middle of the century, the 
cybertanks were the earliest independent mobile units – the first 
true “robots.”
Once the first cybertanks had proved their worth, development 
was rapid. The great war machines aroused a terrified sort of 
fascination. Human warriors devoutly hoped never to confront 
them, and preferred to keep a respectful distance – like several 
kilometers – even from friendly ones. They were just too big.
One fact, more than anything, shows the troops’ attitude toward 
the cybertank. Unlike other war vehicles, they were never called 
“she.” Friendly units of the speaker’s acquaintance were “he”; 
others were “it.” And the term “cybertank” was rarely used. People 
had another name for the big war machines – one drawn from the 
early Combine units and, before that, from dark myth.
They called them Ogres . . .

In its basic version, Ogre is a two-player game representing 
an attack by a cybernetic fighting unit – the Ogre – on a strategic 
command post guarded by an armor battalion. Playing time is 
between 30 minutes and 1 hour. Other scenarios (see the Scenario 
Book) may involve the larger (G.E.V.) maps, more types of units, 
and/or several Ogres, and may take as long as desired.
1.01 Learning. Before playing for the first time, skim Sections 
1 through 7 to get the feel of the game. Those are the only rules used 
for these starting scenarios. “Ramming” rules are used. Only one unit 
can occupy each hex except during ramming. Then set up the map 
and counters for the Mark III Attack (below) and begin play.
You can download a “quick start” version of the rules, with 
only the relevant parts of Sections 1-7, from ogre.sjgames.com/
quickstart.
1.02 Objectives. Each scenario gives its own conditions for 
ending the game, and objectives for each player. Unless specified 
otherwise, a scenario continues until one force is entirely gone 
from the map, through destruction, withdrawal, or both.
1.03 Solo play. Because relatively few units are involved, the 
scenarios in this section are good for solo play – that is, one person 
can play both sides. Try different tactics. For example, “program” 
the Ogre to charge straight in, and reduce the size of the defensive 
forces for balance. Alternatively, commit the defense to fairly static 
positions and make hit-and-run attacks with the Ogre, in which case 
the defensive forces should be much larger. On the G.E.V. maps, the 
Breakthrough and Raid scenarios are good for solitaire play.
1.04 Play balance. Most players find Ogre tactics are easier to 
learn than defense tactics. The balance on the starting scenarios 
takes this into account. In particular, the Mark III Attack scenario 
assumes that both players are new to the game. If both players are 
experienced, the defender will usually win with the forces given; 
removing two armor units will make the Mark III scenario about 
even for experienced players.
In a perfect setup, victory should go to the more skillful player, 
regardless of who takes which side. By adjusting the number of 
defending armor units, it is easy to handicap the game to make up 
for different levels of experience. In a tournament, it is suggested 
that every round consist of two games, with each player attacking 
once and defending once.
1.05 Unit choice. While learning, things will move faster if 
the defense uses only infantry and the 
four types of armor units in the original 
game: Heavy Tank, Missile Tank, GEV, 
and (at double cost) Howitzer. 
MARK III ATTACK
This represents an Ogre attack on 
a heavily guarded command post. Use 
the original Ogre map, which is orange. 
The defense sets up first. The defending 
player gets 20 squads of infantry (that 
is, infantry counters totaling 20 points 
of attack strength, in any combination 
of counters), and 12 armor units. Note: 
Light Tanks and Light GEVs count as 
only half an armor unit. Howitzers, 
Mobile Howitzers, and Superheavies 
cost double. No Cruise Missiles allowed!
There are four gray arrows on the 
edges of the Ogre map. They define two 
lines which divide the map into North, 
Central, and South areas. Hexes on a 
line are considered north of that line.
The area between the lines is the 
Central Area. No more than 20 attack 
strength points (see p. 7, first counter 
diagram) may be set up in this area.
The rest of the defending force 
must be set up in the North Area, which 
comprises all hexes on or north of the 
north line.
No defenders may set up in the South 
Area (that is, in any hex whose number 
ends in 17 or higher). 
SCENARIOS
SCENARIOS
SCENARIOS 1.00
DEFENSIVE SETUP
This is an example of a reasonably good defensive setup for the basic scenario. 
This is an example to be used while learning the game, NOT the only legal setup!

This set has five map boards, each in two sections. Maps are 
divided into hexagons, or “hexes.” Each hex represents an area 
1,500 meters across. Hexes are numbered to aid in scenario setup.
The original Ogre map (orange) represents devastated, cratered 
terrain, and gives smaller, faster games. The green maps are the 
“G.E.V.” maps, because they were originally released with the game 
of that name. They show undamaged terrain with towns and forests. 
The G.E.V. maps in this set are designated G1, G2, S1, and S2.
2.00.1 Geomorphing maps. Any S map may be connected to 
any side of any G map. A board of any 
size may be assembled by alternating 
G and S maps. When multiple maps are 
used, a hex is designated by the map 
number and then the hex number – for 
instance, G2-1401.
2.00.2 Partial hexes. To allow 
the G and S maps to geomorph, the 
maps are cut down the middle of rows 
of hexes. Hexes that fall between 
maps will contain two 
numbers (four at the 
corners!). Such hexes 
can be referred to by 
either number. Hexes 
that fall between maps 
are still considered 
a single hex, and a 
partial hex at the edge 
of the map is treated 
as a full hex for all 
purposes. 
2.00.3 Map overlays. These pieces may be placed on top of 
the map to change terrain. Overlays are two-sided. They range in 
size from multi-hex pieces to small ovals that change a single map 
hexside. Overlays may be placed at the start of a scenario, or used 
to represent damage (craters, bridge out, rubbled towns, and so on) 
during play.
Overlays, especially small or thin ones, can move accidentally. 
A small amount of poster putty or rubber cement can be used to 
hold an overlay in place. Peel it off carefully after the game.
2.01 Terrain types. Each map hex has a single basic terrain 
type, which governs entry into (and sometimes exit from) the hex, 
and may give bonuses to defense. The edges of hexes often depict 
bits of adjoining terrain types, but this is only to make the map look 
more realistic; these small overlaps have no effect on play. Details 
of terrain effects on movement and combat are found in Sections 5 
and 7, respectively.
The Player Reference Sheets include terrain effect charts.
2.01.1 Clear terrain. Light green hexes (on 
the G.E.V. maps) and orange-brown hexes (on 
the original Ogre map) represent “clear” areas. All 
units have their normal movement and combat 
abilities in clear terrain.
2.01.2 Craters. Hexes containing craters 
are impassable. No unit may move into or over a 
crater. Units may fire over craters. 
The small cracks around craters 
do not affect movement.
Crater overlays may be added to the map. They 
have the same effect as printed craters. A crater is 
immediately placed on the map in any non-water 
hex where a Cruise Missile strikes (see Section 10, 
below).
2.00
No units may start in, or enter, a crater hex.
The Command Post may be placed anywhere, but the farther 
north it is, the safer it is!
The attacking player takes a single Ogre Mark III and moves 
first, entering anywhere on the south end of the map. It spends one 
movement point to enter its starting hex.
Victory conditions are as follows:
 
►All defending units destroyed: complete Ogre victory.
 
►Command post destroyed and Ogre escapes from the south end of 
the map: Ogre victory.
 
►Command post and Ogre destroyed: marginal Ogre victory.
 
►Command post survives, but Ogre escapes: marginal defense 
victory.
 
►Command post survives, Ogre destroyed: defense victory.
 
►Command post and at least 30 points of attack strength survive, 
Ogre destroyed: complete defense victory.
MARK V ATTACK
Play is identical to Mark III Attack, except:
 
►The defense gets 30 squads of infantry (e.g., ten 3-squad 
counters) and 20 armor units.
 
►No more than 40 points of attack strength may set up in the 
Central Area.
 
►The attacking Ogre is a Mark V.
 
►For a complete victory, the defender must destroy the Ogre 
while preserving his CP and at least 50 points of attack strength.
The quarter hex counts 
as one full hex
The half hex counts 
as one full hex
Ridge Overlays

2.01.3 Towns. Urban areas, which slow all units 
except infantry and protect all units.
2.01.4 Forests. Wooded areas, which slow the 
movement of armor units and protect infantry.
2.01.5 Swamps. Marshy wooded areas, which 
drastically reduce armor movement and protect 
infantry.
2.01.6 Water. River or lake areas. Water hexes are 
impassable to all units except infantry, GEV-type 
units, Ogres, and Superheavy Tanks.
2.01.7 Damaged town and forest. Hexes showing 
town and forest with scattered fires are provided 
as overlays. If a town or forest hex is damaged 
(see Section 13.01), it is replaced by one of these 
overlays, which cuts roads and railroads but has no 
other effect.
2.01.8 Rubble. The “damaged” overlays are backed 
by “rubble.” If a town or forest hex is destroyed 
(see 13.01), it is replaced by rubble, which most 
units treat as swamp.
2.01.9 Beach. A beach hex is a clear hex which 
borders a water hex, and includes at least one 
hexside which is hard, flat, and gently sloped from 
water to land. These “beach hexsides” are shown in 
tan. Beach hexes appear only on overlays, for use 
in scenarios.
Beach is treated as ordinary clear terrain for all purposes. 
Exception: GEVs may move through a beach hexside from land to 
water, or vice versa, without ending the turn at the edge of the 
water. If a road or railroad passes through the beach hex, a GEV may 
move from road/RR to water or vice versa and get a road bonus for 
that phase, if and only if it passes through the beach hexside.
2.02 Hexside terrain. Some terrain features are drawn along 
the sides of hexes. These affect movement between hexes, but do 
not affect units in the adjoining hexes.
2.02.1 Ridge hexsides. Heavy black markings 
along hexsides indicate ridges of loose debris that 
block movement. Only Ogres, Superheavy Tanks, 
and infantry may cross ridge hexsides. Units may 
fire over ridges.
2.02.2 Stream hexsides. Wavy blue lines along 
hexsides represent streams. Streams delay the 
movement of most armor units, but do not affect 
fire.
2.03 Roads and railroads. These features always run through 
the center of hexes. They do not change the underlying terrain 
type, but units on the road/railroad ignore all movement penalties 
for terrain.
2.03.1 Roads. Hexes containing a gray line with a 
dashed yellow center are road hexes. Units which 
enter a hex on the road may ignore any movement 
penalties for the underlying terrain. A unit which 
stays on the road for its entire movement phase 
gets a “road bonus” to movement (see Section 
5.07.1). Roads do not affect combat.
If a road leads straight into a water hex, it is a GEV ramp, 
specifically made to allow GEVs to move between land and water 
without losing the road bonus.
2.03.2 Railroads. Hexes containing track marks 
are rail hexes, used by trains (see Section 9). GEVs 
and infantry treat railroads as roads.
2.03.3 Bridges. A bridge image 
indicates a place where a road or 
railroad crosses a stream or river. 
Bridges may be destroyed (see 
Section 13.02), cutting the road 
or railroad. 
Indicate this by placing a “Bridge Out” overlay. 
Note that any unit can cross a railroad bridge.
3.00
Red counters on black represent the forces of the North 
American Combine. Blue counters on white are forces of the 
Paneuropean Federation. The green units on white represent the 
“Black Rose” mercenary company. Other sponsored counter sets 
are various colors and may be treated as separate commands, as 
mercenaries, or as any other force a scenario calls for.
Ogres are painted whatever color they like. Some Ogres in this 
set are painted to match factions; others are unique.
The Combine counter mix leans toward offense, with more tanks 
and GEVs, and the Paneuropean force has more defensive Howitzers 
and more “target” units like Trucks. However, unless a scenario 
specifically limits availability of a unit type, players may build 
Stream Bridge
River Bridge

whatever forces they like, using substitute counters, miniatures, 
and so on, as required.
There are two types of unit counters:
2-D (flat) counters represent most units. Each counter carries 
an image, a name, and the unit’s stats. The reverse side of an armor 
counter shows that unit in a disabled state. Infantry counters have 
different unit sizes on front and back. 2-D Ogre counters simply 
have different colors on the front and back.
3-D counters are provided for Ogres, Command Posts, Laser 
Turrets, Laser Towers, and assorted buildings. The 3-D effect makes 
these key units easier to spot on the board, but has no effect on the 
game stats.
3.01 Armor units. Each of these counters is a single manned 
gun or vehicle. It has four stats which give its capabilities: attack 
strength and range (see Section 7.02), defense strength (see 
Section 7.03), and movement points. Most units have a single 
number for movement (see Section 5.01). GEV units have two 
numbers separated by a dash (see Section 5.05) because they may 
move twice per turn.
In scenarios which define units in terms of “victory points,” one 
standard armor unit is worth 6 VP, a half unit is 3 VP, and so on.
Heavy Tank (HVY). A Main Battle Tank, with a good balance of 
offense, defense, and speed.
Missile Tank (MSL). A lightly armored tracked missile launcher.
Light Tank (LT). A lightly armored scout-type tank. Because 
this is an inexpensive vehicle, a Light Tank counts as only half an 
armor unit in scenario setups.
Superheavy Tank (SHVY). A heavy tracked vehicle mounting 
twin weapons . . . a “tank destroyer.” It is affected by terrain 
as though it were an Ogre! When a player chooses units at the 
beginning of a scenario, each Superheavy is worth two armor units.
The Superheavy has two main guns. Its total attack strength is 
6, but it may divide this into two attacks of 3 each (The * on the 
counter indicates this split attack ability – see 7.02.) But, unlike 
an Ogre, the Superheavy may not lose one gun and continue to 
function. When it is hit, it is disabled or destroyed as a unit.
The Superheavy also has two antipersonnel weapons. These 
function exactly like Ogre AP weapons (see Section 7.05.1). Like 
Ogre AP, they are doubled in an overrun attack.
Optional rule 13.07 allows Superheavies to take partial damage, 
using Ogre-style record sheets.
Howitzer (HWZ). A non-self-propelled heavy missile cannon. 
Because this is an expensive unit, a player must count each 
Howitzer as two armor units in scenario setup.
Mobile Howitzer (MHWZ). A missile cannon mounted on 
a tracked chassis. It is also an expensive unit, and counts as two 
armor units in scenario setup.
Ground Effect Vehicle (GEV). A highly mobile hovercraft, 
lightly armed and armored. GEVs may move twice per turn. Terrain 
affects GEVs differently from other units; in particular, they can 
cross water.
Light GEV (LGEV). A lightly armed one-man hovercraft. It uses 
GEV movement and terrain rules.
When a player chooses units at the beginning of a scenario, each 
LGEV is worth half an armor unit.
GEV-PC. A hovercraft personnel carrier. It uses GEV movement 
and terrain rules. 
A GEV-PC can carry up to three squads of infantry. See Section 
5.11 for movement and combat rules used when infantry ride 
vehicles.
Defense
strength
Movement
points
range
attack
strength
unit name

Missile Crawler (MCRL). A heavy tracked vehicle carrying a 
Cruise Missile (see Section 10). It has no attack strength of its own; 
it attacks by firing the missile. It is affected by terrain as though it 
were a Heavy Tank. When a player chooses units at the beginning of 
a scenario, each Missile Crawler is worth three armor units.
Crawler (CRL). A Missile Crawler that has fired its missile. 
It is affected by terrain as though it were a Heavy Tank. Crawlers 
cannot be chosen in the initial setup; when a Missile Crawler fires its 
missile, it is replaced by a Crawler, which can do no further damage, 
but is worth victory points to the enemy if destroyed.
3.02 Infantry (INF). Infantry wear powered “battlesuits” which 
greatly increase their mobility and provide some radiation and 
shrapnel protection. The scenario setups refer to infantry in terms 
of “squads.” Each squad is 1 attack strength point, so a 3/1 infantry 
counter represents three squads. Infantry counters are 2/1 on one 
side, and either 1/1 or 3/1 on the other, for ease in splitting or 
recombining squads.
A 3-squad counter is the equivalent of one armor unit for both 
stacking and victory points. In the starting scenarios, no more than 
three squads of infantry (a 3/1 counter) can occupy one hex.
Note that the defense strength of each infantry counter is equal 
to the number of squads. Safety in numbers!
Most infantry are “regular” INF units. Specialist infantry, as 
described below, have extra cost and capabilities but otherwise 
perform as regular infantry.
All types of infantry can combine in groups of up to three squads 
for defensive purposes. Any two squads can defend together at D2, 
and any three squads can defend at D3. If an attacker gets a D result 
against a mixed stack of infantry, roll randomly to see which squad 
is lost.
3.02.1 Marine Battlesuits (MAR). Marines are treated for all 
purposes like regular infantry, except that they move and attack 
equally well on land and water, and have double defense in water 
hexes.
When a player chooses units 
at the beginning of a scenario, 
he may trade regular infantry 
for Marines at a 2 to 1 ratio; for 
instance, 20 regular infantry 
could be traded for 10 Marines.
3.02.2 Heavy Weapons Teams (HWT). Specialist battlesuit 
squads, with rules to be added as an online bonus.
3.02.3 Combat Engineers (CENG). Specialist battlesuit 
squads, with rules to be added as an online bonus.
3.03 Transport Units. These have no combat strength, and are 
only available if specified in a scenario. Cost also depends on the 
scenario. In game terms, they are usually just targets.
Truck (TK). A large truck, unarmed and nearly unarmored. It 
has no attack strength, and a defense strength of 0 – if attacked, 
it is automatically destroyed. In a town hex, and/or undergoing a 
spillover attack, has a defense strength of 1. It can carry two squads 
of infantry.
As a wheeled vehicle, it has its own set of terrain effects. See 
5.08.5.
Hovertruck (HT). A cargo-carrying hovercraft. It uses GEV 
movement and terrain rules. It can carry two squads of infantry.
Train. The train is described in Section 9. A train is two hexes 
long, and is made up of two counters. A separate marker is used to 
show its speed. The train moves only on the railroad tracks.
3.04 Ogres. There are several types of Ogre. Each counter 
represents a single cybernetic fighting machine, equipped with 
guns, missiles, antipersonnel weapons, and heavy armor. See the 
box for more about the different Ogres.
Most Ogre counters are two hexes long. Always treat the Ogre as 
occupying only the front hex of its counter or miniature.
3.04.1 Ogre Record 
Sheets. The capabilities of 
the Ogres are not shown on 
the counters. They change 
throughout the game as the 
Ogre is damaged. Keep track of 
damage with the Ogre Record 
Sheets (see p. 17). You may 
copy these sheets freely or 
download blank record sheets 
from ogre.sjgames.com.
3.04.2 Ogre components. Each Ogre has some combination of 
these components:
 
►Main Battery (MB). A large railgun firing tactical nuclear shells.
 
►Secondary Battery (2B). A lighter railgun.
 
►Antipersonnel (AP). A variety of weapons effective only against 
battlesuit armor and thin-skinned (zero defense) targets.
 
►Missile (M). A tactical nuclear missile. Once fired, it is expended 
and marked off the Ogre’s record sheet. Most missiles are 
mounted externally, and can be attacked before they are fired. 
However, some Ogres mount the . . .
 
►Missile Rack (MR). Each missile rack can fire one internal
missile (see below) per turn. Its missiles are stored inside 

the Ogre and can only be fired through a missile rack. So, for 
instance, an undamaged Mark IV, which has three missile racks, 
can fire three missiles per turn.
 
►Internal Missiles (IM). These are fired by a missile rack. They 
have no defense strength; they cannot be targeted while inside 
the Ogre. Destruction of a missile rack destroys one IM at the 
same time; this is the only way internal missiles can be destroyed 
before firing. If all missile racks are destroyed, remaining IM do 
not count as destroyed, but cannot be fired.
 
►Tread Units. This represents the integrity of the Ogre’s treads 
and motors. Loss of tread units slows the Ogre as shown on the 
record sheet. For instance, when a Mark V is reduced to 40 tread 
units, its movement is reduced from 3 to 2. When the Ogre’s 
tread units are all gone, the Ogre can no longer move at all. It 
can still fire at anything within range.
The Ogre does not expend tread units simply by moving.
3.05 Command Post (CP). “Command post” units represent 
small, unarmored structures. In most scenarios, they are simply 
targets. A basic CP has a defense of 0, and will be destroyed by 
any attack. (In a town hex, count a standard CP’s defense as 1.) 
CPs have no attack strength except when overrun; then they have 
a strength of 1.
Unless specified otherwise in a scenario, loss of a CP does not 
affect a player’s ability to fight. 
In some scenarios, CPs may be tougher:
3.05.1 Mobile CP (MCP). A tracked “command crawler” with a 
movement of M1. It may be able to flee from a weakened Ogre . . . if 
it has anywhere to go. It may be D0 or greater (see below). This set 
includes 3-D counters for mobile CPs.
3.05.2 Hardened CP (HCP). Giving the CP any defense at all 
makes the Ogre’s mission harder! A scenario may give a regular or 
mobile CP a defense strength of up to 3. A D result has no effect on 
a hardened CP except to keep it from moving for a turn if it is also 
mobile, but a second D before it recovers will destroy it.
The defense strength of a hardened CP is doubled in town or 
forest.
3.06 Buildings. These are large, permanent buildings, as 
opposed to the flimsy Command Posts. Each building has an SP 
(Structure Point) value, representing its durability. See Section 11 
for combat rules.
A number of 3-D miniatures are included for various buildings.
2-D building counters are also provided for “fog of war” 
scenarios. The front of each counter gives its type; the back says 
only “Building.” If these are used, an invading force may enter the 
map without knowing which building is which. Once revealed, a 
Ogre types playable in this game include:
 
►Mark I. An oversized heavy tank controlled by a robot 
brain instead of a crew. It was a proof-of-concept design, 
and turned out to be hard to kill, but it was too expensive! 
However, the Mark I remained in production as long as the 
Combine lasted, simply because it was the only Ogre small 
enough to be transported by conventional means. It was 
effective in terrain where human troops didn’t perform well, 
such as jungle and tundra.
In 2080, the Paneuropeans fielded a physically near-identical 
unit, calling it the Pikeman. It is assumed that the templates 
were acquired by espionage.
 
►Mark II. The first Ogre to be mass-produced by the Combine. 
It worked well, but demand for still heavier armament soon 
led to its replacement by the Mark III for most purposes. 
However, the Mark II remained in limited production for 
many years and was sold to client states.
 
►Mark III. The first really capable line-of-battle Ogre, designed 
by the Combine, but produced in quantity by Paneurope after 
it captured the British facility that built them. They called 
it the Legionnaire. The Mark III-B was a Combine-only 
variant with a heavier chassis and two main batteries 
instead of one.
 
►Mark IV. A large but lightly built “raider” 
unit – as expensive to build as a Mark V, 
but faster and specialized for hit-and-run 
attacks. It could demolish a Mark III, and 
make a good showing against a Mark V – but 
its real purpose was to penetrate an enemy 
position, wreak long-range havoc with its 
missiles, and withdraw.
 
►Mark V. A very formidable all-around line-of-
battle unit. This was the biggest cybertank to 
be built in quantity. Paneurope also built large 
numbers of Mark V units, calling them Huscarl, 
after the occupation of Great Britain.
 
►Mark VI. The biggest Ogre ever to go into regular production, 
with three main batteries and three missile racks. 
Comparatively few were built.
 
►Fencer. The first original Paneuropean cybertank design. 
It was no faster than a Mark V, but, with four missile racks, 
was designed for a hit-and-run tactical role. Mounting only 
two light railguns, it was weak in close-range combat; the 
upgunned Fencer-B turret was an attempt to address this.
 
►Doppelsoldner. The biggest Paneuropean cybertank, generally 
comparable to a Mark VI.
Record sheets for the Ogre Vulcan (an engineering 
unit) and Ogre Ninja (a stealth cybertank) are 
included with this box; the rules will appear as 
an online bonus.
A free Ogre app for iOS, Android, 
and Windows Phone is available 
through apps.sjgames.com. It 
includes multiple Ogre records, 
a combat calculator with die 
roller, printable record sheet 
PDFs, wallpapers, quick links to our Ogre pages, and more.
PDFs, wallpapers, quick link
A
a
i
ks to
PDFs, wallpapers, quick link
y 
of-
to 
rge 
carl,
t them. They called 
a Combine-only 
n batteries
” 
,
►Doppelsoldner. Th
comparable to a M
Recor
unit) a
inclu
an o

building counter may be replaced by its 3-D equivalent. Otherwise, it 
does not matter for play purposes whether a building is represented 
by a 2-D or 3-D counter.
Admin. A generic building which may represent an office, 
laboratory, hardened communication site, etc. Admin buildings 
have SP values of 10 to 30.
Strongpoint. A very heavily armored bunker, command center, 
or other fortification, with SP 60 or more.
Reactor. A nuclear reactor, 
with 60 SP. It is intended for 
use as a very-high-value target. 
Depending on the scenario, 
destruction 
of 
the 
reactor 
might temporarily cut power, 
giving the attacker a tactical 
advantage . . . or pollute the 
whole area.
Only the Kickstarter edition 
includes 3-D Reactor minis. 
All sets include 2-D Reactor 
counters.
Laser. A heavy laser for use 
against Cruise Missiles and Ogre 
missiles, with 20 to 40 SP. See 
Section 12.
Laser Tower. A heavy laser 
mounted in a tower, giving it 
increased range; it has 20 SP. 
See Section 12.
3.06.1 Structure Point markers. These are round markers with 
numbers from 10 to 60. When a building is used in a scenario, one 
or more Structure Point markers are placed beside it to indicate its 
strength.
3.07 Status markers and overlays. 
These show permanent changes to units 
or terrain.
 
►“Stuck” markers indicate that the unit 
is stuck in swamp and cannot move. 
See Section 5.08.3.
 
►“Road Cut” markers, and “Bridge Out,” 
rubble, and crater overlays are used 
to indicate terrain damaged before a 
scenario starts or during play.
4.01 Turns. Ogre is played in turns. During his own turn, 
a player may move any or all of his units, and fire with any or all 
of them, as long as each unit fires only once (except in overrun 
situations) and moves only once (twice for GEVs). 
4.02 Phases of a turn. The turn sequence for each player in a 
two-player game is:
1. Recovery.
(a) All the player’s units which were disabled before the 
last enemy turn by ramming or enemy fire now recover 
automatically. Turn the counters right-side-up. 
(b) Roll one die for each of his units disabled by forest, rubble, 
or swamp, regardless of how long it has been disabled, to 
see if it recovers. On a roll of 1 to 4, the unit recovers and 
is turned right-side-up. See 5.08.2, 5.08.4. 
2. Movement phase. Any or all units may move up to their full 
number of movement points (see Section 5). Units which 
move into terrain that may disable them must stop! If any 
unit(s) enter an enemy-occupied hex, creating a ram/overrun 
situation, immediately:
(a) roll to see whether any attacking units entering swamp/
rubble, or attacking GEVs entering swamp/rubble/forest, 
are disabled;
(b) resolve the ram/overrun attack and move surviving units 
(if any) the remainder of their movement.
3. Disable check. Roll for each armor unit which entered swamp or 
rubble, and each GEV which entered swamp/rubble/forest, to 
check whether it is disabled. Units which rolled for disabling in 
step 2 do not roll again.
4. Fire phase. All units which are not disabled may fire (see Section 
7). Units which made an overrun attack may fire in the fire 
phase as well.
5. Second (GEV) movement phase. Move any or all GEVs 
again, except for those which are disabled or those which 
entered town or swamp/rubble/forest on the first movement 
phase. Resolve any ram/overrun attacks. Roll for disabling on 
each GEV which entered swamp/rubble/forest on its second 
movement phase.
It is now the other player’s turn.
Notes:
 
►It is necessary to keep track of when and how a 
unit becomes disabled. Disabled units are flipped 
over. Normally, there will not be enough disabled 
units on the board at one time to create difficulty.
 
►A ramming or overrun attack always takes place immediately, 
interrupting the movement phase, when one or more units 
enter an enemy-occupied hex. The movement phase resumes 
after the ram/overrun is resolved. See Section 5.04.
on its second
ed 
SEQUENCING
SEQUENCING
SEQUENCING4.00

Game scale is 4 minutes per turn, and hexes are 1,500 meters, or 
a little less than a mile, from side to side.
5.01 Movement points. The right side of each armor and 
infantry counter shows its “movement points” – the maximum 
number of hexes it can move per 
turn in clear terrain. For example, 
an M2 counter can move up to two 
hexes per turn. The terrain shown 
on the map can increase or decrease 
movement. Movement points may not 
be accumulated from turn to turn.
A unit never has to move. (Exception: the train has to move 
once it picks up speed. See Section 9.)
A disabled unit (see Combat Results Table) may not move until 
it recovers. Recovery from combat damage is generally automatic; 
recovery from terrain-related disablement requires a die roll.
5.02 Stacking. The stacking limit depends on the scenario. 
Obviously, a hex 1.5 km across could hold thousands of units. The 
stacking limit is arbitrary: it makes play faster and represents a 
reasonable doctrine in a situation where weapons can devastate 
a whole hex at once. By agreement, players can change or ignore 
stacking limits and take the consequences of Cruise Missile and 
spillover fire (7.12) attacks. 
5.02.1 Original map scenarios. In scenarios on the original 
Ogre map, units may not be stacked; that is, only one vehicle at a 
time, or a maximum of three squads of infantry, may occupy each 
hex. (This limitation is for speed of play. If you try an Ogre map 
scenario with stacking, be sure to use the spillover fire rules in 
Section 7.12, too.)
5.02.2 G.E.V. map scenarios. When playing on the G.E.V. 
(green) maps, up to five vehicles on each side may occupy any hex 
at the end of any movement phase. Each single squad of infantry 
counts as 1/3 of a vehicle for stacking purposes; that is, a hex may 
hold 15 squads of infantry, or 12 squads of infantry and one vehicle, 
etc.
Ogres and CPs count as individual vehicles for stacking. The 
train and its contents do not count for stacking, nor do buildings.
5.02.3 Combining infantry. Infantry are represented by 
counters for 1, 2, and 3 squads. For convenience, a larger infantry 
counter may be built up from smaller counters, or broken down 
into squads, at any time during the owning player’s movement 
phase. These counters may move together or separately as long 
as no individual squad exceeds its movement allowance. Infantry 
counters have different values on the front and back, for ease in 
“making change.”
5.03 Movement through other units. Any unit may move 
through a hex occupied by friendly units, as long as it does not end 
the movement phase in violation of stacking limits (5.02). Units 
may move through a hex occupied by an enemy unit only if that 
enemy has no attack strength (for instance, a CP, or the train). 
Otherwise, no unit may move through or into an enemy-occupied 
hex except to ram or overrun (see below).
5.04 Ram and overrun attacks. When a player moves one or 
more units into a hex containing enemy units, a ram (Section 6) 
or overrun (Section 8) occurs immediately. If you are using the 
simpler ramming rules, you may not enter an enemy hex with a unit 
unless your unit is capable of ramming. For instance, infantry can’t 
ram, so if you are using the ramming rules, infantry may not enter 
an enemy-occupied hex at all.
5.05 GEV double movement. A GEV may move twice per turn: 
once before the fire phase, when all other units move, and again 
after combat. This is shown by the split movement factor on a GEV 
counter. For instance, a regular GEV has a movement of 4-3. It gets 
4 movement points on the regular movement phase, and 3 more 
after combat.
5.06 Ogre movement points. An Ogre begins the game with 3 
movement points (4 for a Mark IV). This will be reduced by damage 
to its tread units as the game progresses (see last paragraph of 
3.04.2).
5.07 Road effects on movement. The road has the same effect 
on all mobile units, regardless of type. A unit which is “on the road” 
(that is, moving from one road hex to another along the line of the 
road) can ignore all underlying terrain. A bridge hex is like any 
other road hex. A unit which moves from a road to a non-road hex, 
or vice versa, is affected by the underlying terrain.
 5.07.1 Road bonus. Any unit which starts its move on the 
road, stays on the road for the entire movement phase, and does 
not ram or overrun, gets a movement bonus of one additional hex. 
The unit does not have to move this additional hex – but, if it does, 
it must continue along the road. It may not use the additional hex 
to leave the road, ram, or overrun. GEVs and infantry, but no other 
units, may take the road bonus along rail hexes. Note: GEVs get
road bonuses in other terrain; see 5.08.2.
5.00
r 
4.03 Multiplayer sequencing. A scenario with more than one 
player on a side will use a similar sequence; players move in the 
same order each turn. Each player on side A, in turn, moves and 
resolves combat; then each player on side B, in turn, moves and 
resolves combat. Players on the same side may take a single fire 
phase together, after the last one moves, in order to combine fire.
4.04 Games with three or more sides. A scenario may have 
three or more independent factions or sides. In that case, each 
player (or side) completes an entire turn; then the next player or 
side completes a turn, and so on. Players on different sides may not 
combine fire. The scenario must define turn order.
It can be useful to change the facing on each unit as you 
move it, to show which units have moved during the turn. Be 
sure to end the movement phase by changing facing on the 
units that you chose not to move, to match the others. Facing 
has no game effect except to mark which units have acted.
ap 
n
V.
ex 
ry 
ay 
e,
he 
move it, to show which units have moved during the turn. Be 
sure to end the movement phase by changing facing on the
units that you chose not to move, to match the others. Facing 
has no game effect except to mark which units have acted.

5.07.2 Movement through river bridge hexes. Water-going 
units can pass under a river bridge, such as the one at hex G1-2013, 
in either direction. They may also ignore the bridge and transition 
from land to water, or vice versa, underneath it. No units except 
infantry may enter the hex on the bridge and leave on the river, or 
vice versa!
Some river bridges show only railroads. Any unit may cross the 
river on a railroad bridge. 
5.08 Other terrain effects on movement. The terrain shown on 
the map affects movement in different ways, depending on the type 
of unit moving. All terrain effects on both movement and combat 
are shown on the Terrain Effects Table, on the player reference 
sheets.
5.08.1 Effects on infantry. Infantry normally have M2. They 
get the road movement bonus for both road and rail hexes. They can 
enter water hexes at a cost of 2 movement points, but cannot attack 
while in water. Infantry have no other terrain penalties; if they can 
legally enter a hex at all, it costs them only one movement point.
Marines, Section 3.02.1, attack normally in water, and their 
defense is doubled in water.
5.08.2 Effects on GEVs. Because of their speed and 
vulnerability, all GEV-type units, including Hovertrucks, are greatly 
affected by terrain, as follows.
Roads/railroads and water aid GEV movement. Since a GEV has 
two movement phases each turn, it can get a road bonus twice per 
turn, and move a total of 9 hexes along either road/railroad or 
water.
A GEV approaching the edge of a body of water must end its 
movement phase at the edge of the water, and may not move onto 
(or leave) the water until its next movement phase, as though it 
were crossing a stream. 
Note: By passing through a beach hexside (2.01.9), GEVs may 
transition from water to land, or vice versa, without stopping at the 
edge of the water. If a road or railroad passes through the beach 
hex, a GEV may move from road/RR to water or vice versa and get a 
road bonus for that phase, if and only if it passes through the beach 
hexside. 
Forest, rubble, and swamp are the same to GEVs. A GEV must pay 
2 movement points to enter these hexes. Furthermore, a GEV ends 
its movement for the turn when it enters such a hex. If it enters on 
its first movement phase, it does not get a second phase. Finally, a 
GEV entering these hexes may become disabled. Roll one die when 
the GEV enters. A result of 1 or 2 means it is disabled; any other 
result means it is unaffected. A unit disabled in this way may roll to 
recover at the beginning of each turn. On a roll of 1 or 2, it remains 
disabled; otherwise, it recovers. Note that this means that it will 
take a GEV five turns, at least, to move through (for instance) five 
hexes of forest.
Towns affect GEVs like forest or swamp, except that there is no 
chance of the unit becoming disabled.
Streams delay GEVs. A GEV which reaches a stream must stop and 
may not cross it until its next movement phase. There is no cost 
for crossing the stream, but the unit must be next to one at the 
beginning of a movement phase in order to cross.
5.08.3 Effects on heavy tracked units. This includes Ogres, 
Superheavy and Heavy Tanks, Mobile Howitzers, and Missile 
Crawlers with or without missiles. 
Town hexes cost 2 movement points to enter.
Streams and forests do not slow them.
A heavy tracked vehicle entering a swamp hex 
must roll one die; on a roll of 1 or 2, the unit is stuck.
Place a “Stuck” marker on it. A stuck unit may fire its weapon(s) 
normally, but may not move for the rest of the game.
Water hexes may be entered by Size 5 and up units (Superheavies 
and Ogres) at a cost of 2 movement points per hex. Other heavy 
tracked units cannot enter water.
Ridges do not affect Ogres and Superheavies. Other heavy 
tracked units may not cross ridges.
Rubble does not affect Ogres and Superheavies. Other heavy 
tracked units treat rubble as swamp.
5.08.4 Effects on light tracked units. This includes Light 
Tanks, Missile Tanks, and Mobile CPs (which are passenger vehicles, 
large but mostly hollow).
Water blocks all movement. None of these units may enter water 
hexes.
Streams delay movement; a unit coming to a stream must stop 
and may not cross the stream until its next movement phase. (In 
other words, the only way to cross a stream is to start the movement 
phase next to it.)
Forest and town hexes cost 2 movement points to enter.
Swamp (and rubble, which is treated as swamp) also costs 2 
movement points to enter. In addition, a unit which enters a swamp 
hex must stop its movement for that turn and roll one die. A result 
of 1 or 2 means that unit is disabled; any other result means the unit 
is unaffected. A unit disabled by swamp may roll to recover at the 
beginning of its next turn. On a roll of 1 or 2, it remains disabled; 
otherwise, it recovers. A unit remains disabled as long as its owner 
continues to roll 1s and 2s each turn.

5.08.5 Effects on wheeled vehicles. The only wheeled unit 
in this set is the Truck. It does not get a road bonus. It pays 1 
movement point to travel one hex along a road. If not moving along 
a road, it pays 2 to enter a town hex and 4 to enter a clear or beach 
hex. It may not enter other terrain, or cross streams or ridges.
5.09 Minimum movement. Regardless of other terrain effects, 
any unit which is capable of moving at all may move one hex per 
turn, as long as it is not moving into totally prohibited terrain. For 
example, a Mobile Howitzer (movement of 1) could move its one 
hex into a town, even though the normal cost to enter a town is 2 
movement points.
5.10 Train movement. The train moves only along the railroad 
tracks and follows special rules. See Section 9.
5.11 Infantry riding vehicles. Infantry may increase their 
speed by “hitching a ride” on vehicles. The infantry counts toward 
stacking limits (5.02).
5.11.1 Rideable vehicles. Infantry can ride the following 
vehicles:
 
►Heavy Tank (one squad)
 
►Light Tank (one squad)
 
►Superheavy Tank (two squads)
 
►GEV-PC (three squads)
 
►Truck (two squads)
 
►Hovertruck (two squads)
Infantry riding a Truck or Hovertruck are assumed to be riding 
inside, and cannot use their weapons until they dismount. Infantry 
on other vehicles may fire while riding.
It would be physically possible for an Ogre to carry a number 
of infantry squads equal to its Size minus 3. Unless specifically 
permitted in a scenario, you will not get the infantry to go along 
with that idea. (See Size rules, p. 14.)
5.11.2 Combat involving infantry riding vehicles. The vehicle 
and infantry may both fire normally. After all, a speeding vehicle is a 
stable firing platform, compared to what these infantry are used to.
If the vehicle + infantry combination is fired on, the attacker 
makes one die roll for each attack on the combination, but calculates 
the odds separately for the vehicle and all the infantry and applies 
the results separately. Example: A Howitzer fires on a Superheavy 
Tank carrying two squads of infantry. The die roll is a 3. The attack 
is a 3-to-1 on the two infantry (so a 3 eliminates both), but only a 
1-to-1 on the Superheavy (so a 3 has no effect). This procedure is 
followed in both normal combat and overruns. Note that a tank will 
often survive a hit that kills its riders, but if the vehicle is a truck, 
the battlesuited riders may survive the hit that kills the vehicle.
5.11.3 Mount/dismount sequencing for infantry. To mount a 
vehicle, an infantry squad must spend its entire movement for the 
turn. The vehicle may either start in the infantry’s starting hex or 
pass through it. The vehicle moves normally on that turn.
The infantry may dismount in any hex of the vehicle’s movement 
on any turn thereafter, but may not move “on its own” on the turn it 
dismounts, or mount and dismount on the same turn.
Infantry may fire normally on the turns it mounts and dismounts.
5.12 Leaving the map. Scenarios will list the sides on which 
units may move off the map, either to escape or in pursuit of victory 
conditions. It takes 1 movement to leave the map. Units which 
leave on other sides are considered lost to the enemy. No unit may 
re-enter the map once it has left.
Ramming takes place during the movement phase. Players 
should decide in advance whether they will use the (fast, simple) 
Ramming rules here, intended for games in which only one unit 
normally occupies each hex, or the (more realistic and complex) 
Overrun Combat rules described in Section 8. Do not use both!
6.01 Ramming. Ramming a unit is accomplished by moving 
into its hex. Assess the results to both the rammed and ramming 
unit immediately. Ramming is a standard tactic for Ogres. For other 
units, ramming is a suicide attack.
6.01.1 Limit on ramming. An Ogre may ram no more than 
twice per turn, or one enemy Ogre per turn.
6.02 Ogre ramming armor units. Any immobile armor unit
(a Howitzer or any disabled unit) is destroyed if rammed. Any 
armor unit except a Superheavy is disabled on a die roll of 1-3, and 
destroyed on a die roll of 4-6. The Ogre player rolls the die upon 
ramming. If the armor unit is not destroyed, the Ogre may expend 
one more movement point, stay in that hex, and ram again.
An Ogre loses two tread units (see 3.04.2) for ramming a Heavy 
Tank or MHWZ, and one tread unit for ramming any other armor unit. 
Exception: A Superheavy rammed by an Ogre suffers an immediate 
1-1 attack. The Ogre loses three tread units. (If Superheavy treads 
are being recorded per the optional rule 13.07, it loses treads as if it 
were an Ogre Mk. I if it is not destroyed.)
6.03 Ramming CPs and buildings. An Ogre may ram a CP, 
destroying it. The Ogre loses a number of tread units equal to the 
defense strength of the CP. For a standard CP, this is zero!
For ramming attacks against larger buildings, see Section 
11.04.3.
6.00

The Size Table shows the relative sizes of the units and the
damage that each does when ramming Ogres, buildings 
(11.04.3), and the train (9.05).
6.04 Movement after ramming. If an Ogre has movement left 
after ramming an armor unit or CP, it may move on. However, if loss 
of tread units due to the ram reduced the Ogre’s movement points, 
it may move only the reduced number of hexes that turn. Example: 
A Mark V with 41 remaining tread units moves one hex and rams a 
Missile Tank. This reduces its tread units to 40, so its movement is 
reduced to 2; it may move only one more hex that turn.
6.05 Ogres ramming Ogres. One Ogre may ram another by 
moving onto its hex. The ramming Ogre immediately ends its 
movement for that turn in the last hex it occupied before ramming.
An Ogre which rams a larger Ogre loses five tread units. An Ogre 
which rams a smaller Ogre, or one the same size, loses three tread 
units. Relative sizes of Ogres are shown on the Size Table above.
To determine the damage that it does, the attacking Ogre rolls 
as shown on the Size Table. The total on all the dice is the number of 
tread units lost by the Ogre which was rammed.
Example: A Mark V rams a Mark III. The Mark V automatically 
loses 3 tread units because it rammed a smaller Ogre. A Mk. V rolls 
4 dice to ram. The total rolled is 12, so the Mark III loses 12 tread 
units. On its own move, the Mark III rams back. It automatically 
loses 5 tread units because it rammed a bigger Ogre. A Mk. III rolls 
two dice. The result is 8, so the Mark V loses 8 tread units.
Only tread units are lost to ramming attacks.
6.06 Reducing infantry. An Ogre does not literally “ram” 
infantry, but any Ogre with AP weapons (or a Superheavy Tank) 
may move into an infantry hex as though the infantry were not 
there. If the Ogre/SHVY has any antipersonnel weapons left, the 
infantry unit is automatically reduced by one squad. This does not 
count as an “attack” for the AP weapons. An Ogre/SHVY in a hex 
with infantry may expend a movement point, stay in the same hex, 
and reduce the infantry again. When all its AP weapons are gone, an 
Ogre/SHVY can no longer reduce infantry in this way.
6.07 Ramming by other units. Usually a tactic of desperation! 
Note that infantry can never ram or be rammed.
6.07.1 Ramming by Superheavies. A Superheavy may ram 
Ogres or other vehicles as if it were an Ogre Mark I (see 6.05, 6.08). 
The SHVY suffers a 1-1 attack when it rams, and if optional rule 
13.07 is in use, it also loses treads as a Mark I.
6.07.2 Other armor ramming Ogres. Any other mobile armor 
unit may ram an Ogre by moving onto its hex. The Ogre loses a tread 
unit automatically (2 for a Heavy Tank). The armor unit is destroyed.
6.07.3 Ramming by GEVs. GEVs may not ram on the second 
movement phase if they attacked on that turn. GEVs ram Ogres as 
described above. When ramming other units, the GEV is always 
destroyed. The other unit suffers an attack of twice the GEV’s 
normal attack strength (it is assumed the GEV is firing its weapons 
as it rams). This may not be combined with other attacks.
6.07.4 Other units. Units other than those specified are too 
slow, too light, or too lightly armed to ram effectively . . . unless the 
target is the train, as described in Section 9.05.
6.07.5 Ramming buildings. See 11.04.3.
6.08 Combat in same hex. If an Ogre ends its movement in 
a hex with an enemy unit, and that unit is not destroyed by the 
Ogre’s entry, the Ogre may attack it in the fire phase as if they were 
in adjacent hexes. If the enemy unit survives and is not disabled, 
it may move and attack normally on its next turn, or it may remain 
in the hex and attack the Ogre as if they were in adjacent hexes.
6.08.1 Recovery of disabled unit in same hex. In the unlikely 
event that the Ogre ends its turn in a hex with a disabled unit, stays 
in the hex through its next turn, yet never destroys the disabled 
unit, that unit will recover normally, and may move and attack on 
its turn as in 6.08.
7.00
7.01 Sequencing. The combat phase occurs after the regular 
movement phase. Units do not get another combat phase after GEV 
second-phase movement.
7.02 Attack Strength and Range. Each armor and infantry 
counter shows two numbers separated by a slash – e.g., 4/2. The 
first number is the unit’s attack strength. The second number is its 
range – that is, the maximum number of hexes at which that unit 
may attack. (There are no limitations for line of sight. All units are 
capable of indirect fire and may attack anything within their range. 
The only exceptions are Lasers; see 12.02.)
A unit with an asterisk after its attack strength may divide that 
strength into two equal attacks. For instance, the Superheavy Tank 
(6*/3) may attack with two separate 3/3 attacks.
7.03 Defense Strength. The right side of each armor and 
infantry counter shows its defense strength – e.g., D2. This is the 
only stat shown on the disabled side of an armor counter, because 
disabled units cannot move or attack, but can still defend.
Size
Units
Ogre Building Train
1 Truck, Hovertruck, INF squad
1 Light Tank. LGEV
2 Missile Tank
2 GEV
1-to-1 
3 GEV-PC
3 Heavy Tank
2 treads
4 MCRL or CRL, MCP, MHWZ
4 HWZ
5 Superheavy Tank
1-to-1 
5 Ogre Mk. I
6 Ogre Mk. II
7 Mk. III, III-B, Ninja, Vulcan
3 dice
8 Ogre Mk. IV, V, any Fencer
4 dice
5 dice
9 Ogre Mk. VI, Doppelsoldner
6 dice
7 dice
SIZE TABLE
– Ram Damage Done To –

7.04 Ogre weapon stats. An Ogre has several weapons, each 
with its own attack strength, range, and defense strength. The 
bigger the Ogre, the more weapons it has. Ogre weapons are shown 
on the Ogre Record Sheets, included as a separate component. 
When an Ogre weapon is destroyed, it is marked off the record 
sheet, as shown on p. 17.
7.05 Attacks. Each armor unit and infantry squad may apply 
its attack strength once per turn. Each Ogre weapon may apply 
its attack strength once per turn until it is destroyed, with the 
following exceptions:
7.05.1 AP weapons. Some units have antipersonnel weapons, 
effective only against infantry (including special infantry types) 
and D0 units such as a regular (unarmored) CP. A unit may not 
fire AP at the same infantry unit more than once per turn, but any 
number of AP weapons may be used for that single attack. 
Note: Any weapon may be used against infantry. AP weapons are 
useless against anything except infantry, targets with a defense of 
0, and other targets as designated in scenarios.
7.05.2 Missiles. Each Ogre missile is a one-shot weapon. If it 
is fired (or destroyed before firing), it is gone; mark it off the Ogre 
record sheet.
7.05.3 Missile racks. An Ogre missile rack has no attack 
strength of its own. It can fire one missile per turn as long as the 
Ogre has internal missiles remaining.
7.06 Combining attacks. Any number of units and/or Ogre 
weapons may combine their attack strengths into an attack on any 
single target except Ogre treads (see 7.13.2 for attacks on treads).
7.07 One target per attack. An attack must be made against 
one designated target only – either a given unit, or a given weapon 
(or treads) on an Ogre, or the terrain (such as a town) in a hex. An 
attack strength may never be divided between targets. A Missile 
Tank could fire at 1 to 1 on one Ogre secondary battery, but not at 1 
to 2 on two secondaries at once. 
7.07.1 Infantry may have multiple targets. Exception 
to 7.07: A 2-squad or 3-squad infantry counter may divide its 
attack strength between targets, because each squad can fire 
separately. For instance, a 2/1 infantry could attack one GEV at 
1 to 1, or two different GEVs at 1 to 2 each, or the same GEV twice at 
1 to 2 each time. Infantry cannot divide itself into attack strengths 
of other than whole numbers – no fractions.
7.08 Timing. A player may make his attacks in any order and 
may observe the results of each attack before announcing and 
carrying out the next, in order to most efficiently use his strength. 
However, a player must always announce what he is attacking, what 
he is attacking with, and the odds, before rolling the die – e.g., “All 
right, I am now attacking that Missile Tank there, with three guns 
from the secondary battery, which is a 4 to 1.”
7.09 Successive attacks. Any number of successive attacks may 
be made against any unit or Ogre weapon in one turn, provided 
that each attacking unit or weapon fires only once. Exception: an 
infantry unit (1 to 3 squads in a single hex) may only suffer one AP 
attack per turn from each attacking unit. See Section 7.05.1.
7.10 Attack resolution. Each attack is resolved by comparing 
the attack and defense strengths of the units, and rolling a die.
Specifically: For each attack, all attack strengths involved are 
totaled, and then compared with the defense strength of the target, 
in ratio form. This ratio is then reduced in the defender’s favor to one 
of the ratios shown on the Combat Results Table. In other words, the 
target of the attack gets the benefit of the rounding-off. Examples:
 
►An attack strength of 2 against a defense strength of 1 would be 
a “2-to-1” attack, written as “2-1”. 4 against 2, or 6 against 3, 
would also be a 2-1.
 
►Attack strength 2 vs. defense strength 2 = 1-1.
 
►Attack strength 3 vs. defense strength 2 = still only a 1-1. There’s 
not enough attack strength for a 2-1 attack, so it rounds down 
to the 1-1 column.
 
►Attack strength 2 vs. defense strength 3 = 1-2.
 
►Attack strength 6 vs. defense strength 1 = 6-1 (treated as 5-1; 
see below).

 
►Note that any attack at 5-1 or better is an automatic X, and 
anything worse than 1-2 has no effect.
Once the attack odds have been determined, the attacker rolls 
the die and consults the proper column of the Combat Results Table 
(CRT) to find the result. Results are applied immediately.
7.11 CRT results. Three possible outcomes are shown on the 
Combat Results Table: NE, D, and X.
 
►NE indicates “no effect” to the unit attacked.
 
►X indicates destruction of the unit attacked; remove it from the 
board.
 
►The intermediate result is a D. An infantry unit is immediately 
reduced by one squad. An armor unit (or a hardened CP) 
is “disabled.” A disabled unit cannot fire or move; turn the 
counter over. If it receives another D result while disabled, it 
is destroyed.
A unit disabled by ramming or enemy fire recovers after one full 
enemy turn has passed. If it becomes disabled on an enemy turn, it 
remains disabled through that enemy turn, through its own turn, 
and through the next enemy turn; it then recovers. If disabled on 
its own turn by making a ram (6.07.1, 11.04.3), it remains disabled 
through the enemy turn and recovers on its next turn.
A unit disabled by entering terrain remains disabled through 
the enemy turn and rolls to recover on its next turn.
A D result does not affect the train or Ogres.
7.11.1 Spillover CRT results. When spillover fire (7.12) occurs, 
each result on the CRT is “taken down” one step. A D result is read 
as NE, and an X is read as a D. To affect a unit with a spillover, you 
must roll an X – and then it counts only as a D.
7.11.2 Overrun CRT results. When an overrun attack (Section 
8) occurs, treat any D or X result to non-Ogre units as an X. Only a 
true X affects an Ogre, though.
7.12 Attacks on stacked units: spillover fire. When units are 
stacked (that is, when more than one counter is placed in the same 
hex), they may be attacked as follows: The attacking player declares 
one of the counters to be the “target” of the attack. The attack on the 
target is resolved normally. Each other unit counter in the hex then 
immediately suffers an attack at half the strength (not rounded) 
used in the attack on the target; this represents “spillover” fire and 
blast effect. When a unit suffers spillover fire, all combat results 
from the CRT are reduced in effect: An X on the CRT is treated as a D, 
and a D is treated as NE. Thus, the only unit that can be eliminated 
in one spillover attack is a single squad of infantry. However, a unit 
can be disabled in a spillover attack (X result, treated as D) and then 
destroyed by the same result in a second spillover.
Example: A Heavy Tank, Missile Tank, and a squad of infantry are 
in the same hex. The hex is fired on by a Howitzer (attack strength 
6); the Heavy is the target. Its defense is 3, so it suffers a 2-to-1 
attack. At the same time, the other two units in the hex each suffer 
a half-strength (that is, attack strength 3) spillover attack – which 
would be a 1-to-1 on the Missile Tank and a 3-to-1 on the infantry. 
Each of the attacks is resolved with a separate die roll.
7.12.1 Attacks on stacked infantry units. The first time a stack 
is attacked during a fire phase, the defender determines how its 
infantry are grouped, with up to 3 squads per group. For instance, 5 
squads of infantry could be treated as a 3 and a 2, or as a 2, 2, and 1, 
or as five 1s . . . etc. The attacker then chooses the target. The other 
units or groups are subject to spillover fire. In an overrun attack 
(8.00), though, each squad is always a separate unit.
7.12.2 Units affected by spillover fire. All units (friendly or 
enemy) in a hex are affected by spillover fire, except: (a) a unit’s 
own fire does not spill over onto it, and no spillover fire is calculated 
in an overrun; (b) separate spillover fire is not calculated for a 
tank and the infantry riding it (Section 5.11.2), and (c) Ogres and 
buildings ignore spillover fire.
7.12.3 Spillover against terrain. If the optional rules for 
damaging and destroying terrain are being used, spillover attacks 
are also rolled against the defending unit’s hex. See Section 13.01.2.
7.13 Attacks on Ogres. Any unit firing on an Ogre must specify 
the target it is attacking: either one specific weapon or the Ogre’s 
tread units.
7.13.1 Attacks on Ogre weapons. If weapons are the target, 
the attack strength of the attacker(s) is compared with the defense 
strength of the weapon attacked. Example: A Missile Tank could 
fire on a gun from the secondary battery at 1-1, a missile at 1-1, an 
AP gun at 3-1, or a main battery at 1-2. A Howitzer could attack a 
secondary at 2-1, and so on. An X result on the CRT means the target 
weapon is destroyed. D results do not affect Ogres.
7.13.2 Attacks on Ogre treads. If the Ogre’s tread units are the 
target, each attack must be made by an individual unit, and always 
at 1-to-1 odds. In other words, after the attack is announced, the 
attacker rolls the die, and on a roll of 5 or 6 (X at 1-1 on the CRT), the 
Normal
Disabled
COMBAT RESULTS TABLE
Die 
Roll
1-2
1-1
2-1
3-1
4-1
Combat Odds

Ogre loses a number of tread units equal to the attack strength of 
the attacking unit. Thus, a successful Heavy Tank attack on treads 
would cost an Ogre 4 tread units. Exception: up to three infantry 
squads in the same hex may combine fire against treads.
7.13.3 Destroying Ogres. An Ogre is not destroyed until all its 
firable weapons and tread units are gone. However, a lone, immobile 
Ogre is helpless; at that point, the game is as good as over.
7.14 Terrain effects on combat. Several types of terrain give a 
defense bonus to units in them, or limit the attack ability of units 
in them.
 7.14.1 Forest, swamp, and rubble. Forest, swamp, and rubble 
hexes double the defense strength of infantry. They do not affect 
the defense strength of other units.
7.14.2 Towns. Town hexes triple the defense strength of 
infantry, and double the defense strength of all other units, 
including the train. A town hex gives a D0 unit a defense of 1. When 
Ogre treads are the target in a town, they are destroyed only on a 
roll of 6.
7.14.3 Defensive terrain and roads. A unit on the road gets 
the full defensive bonus of the terrain in its hex.
7.14.4 Water. A GEV on water attacks and defends normally.
An Ogre or Superheavy submerged in a water hex may not attack. 
It may be attacked only by a ram by another such unit, an overrun 
by Marines, or by (all at half strength) Howitzers, Mobile Howitzers, 
and Ogre missiles. It can also be affected by Cruise Missiles (see 
10.04).
Infantry in a water hex may not attack; its defense strength is 
unaffected.
Exception: Marines may attack while in water, and their defense 
is doubled. Marines which are overrun in the water by GEVs may 
choose either to fight on the surface (retaining their double 
defense) or to dive and avoid combat entirely while staying in that 
hex.
7.15 The train in combat. See Section 9.
EXAMPLE OF PLAY
This is a section of the map and an example of an Ogre record 
sheet for an actual game. The Ogre has fired both its missiles. 
It has lost two secondary battery guns, three antipersonnel 
weapons, and 22 tread units – so it is down to 2 movement 
points. Remember, the Ogre is really in the counter’s front hex.
If it is the Ogre’s fire phase, it could (for instance) fire the 
main battery against the LGEV (4-to-1), one secondary on the 
Heavy Tank (1-to-1), one secondary on the GEV (1-to-1), 3 AP 
on the 3-squad infantry counter (1-to-1) and 2 AP on the single 
squad of infantry (2-to-1). It cannot fire on the Howitzer or the 
Missile Tank; they are out of its range.
The Ogre could also combine its fire; for instance, it could, 
instead of the above attacks, use both secondaries on the GEV 
(3-to-1) and then, if it wished, fire on the GEV again with the 
main battery (2-to-1). Or it could fire both secondaries and the 
main all together (5-to-1 – a sure kill).
If it is the defending player’s fire phase, he might 
(for instance) fire the Heavy Tank against the main battery
(1-to-1), Missile Tank against one of the secondaries (1-to-1), 
GEV against a main battery (1-to-2), adjacent infantry units 
against treads (always at 1-to-1), and Howitzer against a 
secondary (2-to-1). The 2-squad infantry counter and the LGEV 
are out of range and cannot fire.
The defense would also have the option of combining fire 
from the various units in order to get improved odds.
If it is the Ogre’s movement phase, it could follow the red 
arrow (ramming the Heavy Tank). Or it could follow the green 
arrow, eliminating the 1-squad infantry counter and reducing 
the 2-squad counter to a single squad. Or it could move to any 
other non-crater hex within 2 of its present position.
If you are learning the game and preparing to play a 
scenario on the Ogre map, stop here. Sections 1-7 have all 
the rules you need for your first games.
Just as for movement, it can be useful to change the 
facing on each unit as it attacks. Be sure to end the fire phase 
by changing facing on the units that did not fire, to match 
the others.
by Marines, or by (all at half strength) Howitzers, Mobile Howitzers,
and Ogre missiles It can also be affected by Cruise Missiles (see
facing on each unit as it attacks. Be sure to end the fire phase 
by changing facing on the units that did not fire, to match 
the others.

Overrun combat uses the combat rules described above, but 
takes place during the movement phase. Units in an overrun may 
fire multiple times during a turn, rather than the one-shot-per-
turn rule of 7.05. Players should decide in advance whether they 
will use the (fast, simple) Ramming rules in Section 6, or the (more 
realistic and complex) Overrun Combat rules described here. Do not 
use both!
8.01 Initiating an overrun. The moving player (attacker) 
initiates an overrun by moving one or more units (see 8.06) into 
an enemy-occupied hex. Overrun combat is settled immediately, 
before the attacker’s movement phase continues.
8.02 Attack strength in overruns. Attack strengths of infantry 
and Ogre weapons, and of the AP weapons of Superheavy Tanks, are 
doubled in overrun attacks, whether they belong to the attacker 
or the defender. Disabled units, which normally may not attack, 
are allowed to fire in an overrun situation. Any disabled unit in 
an overrun hex may fire at half its printed attack strength (not 
rounded). Any CP has an attack strength of 1 in an overrun (1/2 if it 
is disabled). All other units have normal attack strengths.
If a disabled Superheavy is overrun, its AP guns are halved 
because it’s disabled and doubled because it’s an overrun, so they 
fire at normal strength.
8.03 Defense strength in overruns. Defending units in an 
overrun attack get their normal defensive multipliers, if any, for 
the terrain in that hex. The attacker in an overrun does not get any 
bonus; all attacking units defend at their printed strengths.
8.04 Resolving an overrun attack. When an overrun takes 
place, all units in that hex (on both sides) are removed to a spot 
beside the board and all infantry units are divided into 1-squad 
counters. Combat will take place between those units only until only 
one player has units left.
Overrun combat is resolved in “fire rounds.” The defender has the 
first fire round. Each of his units from that hex (including disabled 
ones) fires once. Any attacker receiving either a D or X result is 
removed. Surviving attackers (including any disabled due to terrain 
when entering the hex) may then return fire, and any defending 
unit receiving either a D or X is removed. Surviving defenders then 
fire again . . . and so on until all units on one side are gone.
Note: Spillover fire (7.12) is not calculated in an overrun, 
because shots at close range will be better aimed. However, these 
well-aimed shots mean that units receiving a D result during an 
overrun are considered destroyed, instead of just disabled.
Units can combine fire, or fire in succession on one target, just 
as in a regular attack, as long as no unit fires more than once per 
fire round.
8.05 Ogre overrun rules. Ogres in an overrun situation follow 
the above rules, except that only a true roll of X affects an Ogre, and:
8.05.1 Disarmed Ogres. If, during overrun combat, an Ogre 
loses all its weapons that have valid targets in that combat, it is 
removed from the combat after two further enemy fire rounds and 
replaced in the hex. Thus, when Ogres are involved, overrun combat 
may end with opposing units still in the same hex. If that Ogre was 
an attacker, it may then use any movement points it has remaining 
to leave the hex. 
8.05.2 Ogre ramming during overruns. An Ogre may ram any 
one enemy unit (except infantry) at the end of its first fire round. 
If the target was anything but another Ogre, it is destroyed and the 
Ogre is undamaged. If one Ogre rams another Ogre, damage to each 
is calculated as given in Section 6.05. An Ogre may ram a building 
during overrun combat, with normal results. An Ogre may only ram 
once per overrun combat.
8.05.3 Ramming by other units during overruns. Any other 
unit which could legally ram a unit or building during regular 
movement may ram at the end of its first fire round, with normal 
effects.
8.05.4 Missile racks in overruns. A missile rack can fire only 
one missile per turn. Once an Ogre uses a missile rack, it may not 
use it in subsequent fire rounds that turn, either in that overrun or 
later ones. If the attacks are taking place on the Ogre’s turn, it may 
also not fire that missile rack on its regular fire phase.
8.06 Movement and stacking before overruns. Since an 
overrun takes place during a movement phase, more than five units 
may participate in an overrun attack. However, the stacking limit of 
5 units must be observed at the end of the movement phase, even 
if the attacker must remove units to comply. It is permissible to 
bring units different distances to let them participate in the same 
overrun. For instance, one GEV could move one hex into an enemy 
hex; another could move two hexes, and another four, into the 
same hex; the attacker could then declare the overrun and all three 
GEVs would participate.
8.06.1 Infantry mounted on vehicles. Infantry riding on 
vehicles may dismount at the beginning of the overrun. They 
cannot remount after the combat. Those who do not dismount 
will be attacked in one die roll against their vehicle (see 5.11.2). 
Infantry within vehicles (Trucks, Hovertrucks) do not dismount, 
cannot fight in the overrun, and are subject to 5.11.2.
8.07 Overrun situations on water hexes. Units in water hexes 
may be underwater (Ogres and Superheavies), on the surface (GEVs 
and swimming infantry), or either (Marines). Swimming infantry, 
except for Marines, cannot fight; Ogres and Superheavies can fight 
only by ramming each other. GEVs can attack only units on the 
surface. Marines can attack any unit in the hex, or can avoid all 
foes except other Marines by going underwater. So, in an overrun 
situation:
 
►If neither side can attack the other, no combat occurs, and both 
remain in the hex, unaffected.
 
►If some units on each side can attack, play out the overrun 
normally. If there are also units in the hex that cannot attack, 
the other side must decide whether to spend fire rounds 
attacking them instead of active enemies.
 
►If only one side can attack the other (either at the beginning 
of the combat, or as a result of combat losses), the side that 
cannot fight is destroyed. Exception: Ogres are removed from 
the overrun after suffering two further enemy fire rounds, and 
remain in that hex.
8.08 Resuming play after an overrun. Return all surviving 
units to the contested hex. The attacker’s movement phase 
continues. If he won the overrun attack, and any of his surviving 
units have movement points left, they may continue to move, 
8.00

A train may be used as a scenario objective, trying to escape 
from attackers, or as a source of reinforcements. Trains move only 
along the railroad lines.
9.01 Train counters. A standard 
train is made up of two counters, so 
it takes up two hexes (this is a long 
train!). The train’s defense strength 
is always 3. In some scenarios 
(9.03.1), the train may have an 
attack strength; otherwise it may 
not attack.
9.02 Train movement. The two 
train counters are identical, and the 
train may go either direction. “Front” 
and “back” are always relative to the 
movement of the train. 
The rear half of the train always 
remains connected to the front half, 
unless the rear half is destroyed (see 
9.03).
The speed of the train is 
represented by the train movement 
markers. Each train gets one marker, 
placed on or beside the train as 
convenient. 
Each marker is arrow-shaped, 
to show the train’s direction, with a 
movement number. There are four 
markers available per train: M0/1, 
M2/3, M4/5, and M6/7.
M4/5, for instance, means that 
the train will move forward either 4 
or 5 hexes (as the owning player chooses). On its movement phase, 
the train must move one of the two distances shown by the counter 
on it at the beginning of the turn.
The train must always go forward unless it begins the turn with 
the M0/1 marker. In this case, it may either go one hex forward, 
stand still, or reverse (remember to switch the arrow!) and go one 
hex in the other direction.
9.02.1 Changing speed. At the end of each turn, the player 
owning the train may change its speed by one marker faster or 
slower. That is, if its speed was M2/3, he may change it to M0/1 or 
to M4/5. If it was M4/5, he may change it to M2/3 or to M6/7. If it 
was 6/7, it may go only to 4/5; if it was 0/1, it may either go to 2/3 
in the same direction, or 0/1 in the reverse direction (reverse the 
arrow). Of course, its speed may always stay the same.
If a train did not move on the previous turn, and is still at 0/1 
speed, it is considered “standing still” for combat purposes.
Note: The train has engines at each end and is capable of equal 
speed in either direction. The “front” counter is determined by 
which way the train is moving.
9.02.2 Terrain effects on train movement. The train moves 
only along the rail hexes, and ignores all terrain over which the 
rails pass.
9.02.3 Stacking rules. The train does not count against 
stacking limits.
Unless the train is armed (9.03.1), enemy units may enter its 
hex freely.
9.02.4 Running off the rails. If the train moves into a hex 
where the rails are cut, it is destroyed.
9.02.5 Multiple trains. A scenario may allow more than one 
train on the same track. If they collide at any speed, both are 
destroyed.
9.02.6 Paired tracks. A scenario may specify that there are two 
(or more) sets of tracks on the rail line. If so, trains on different 
tracks may pass one another. Destruction of a rail hex, or a train on 
that hex, still cuts all lines within the hex.
9.03 Attacks on the train. The train’s defense strength is D3. 
Either counter of the train may be attacked. Only an X result affects 
the train.
If an attack destroys the rear of the train (or either half of a train 
standing still), that counter is flipped to the destroyed side, but the 
other half of the train is not affected. If an attack destroys the front 
of a moving train, the whole train is destroyed; remove the counters 
unless there are other trains in the scenario.
If a train counter is destroyed, the rails in those hexes are 
considered cut; this may matter for victory points.
9.03.1 Armed train. The defender may exchange up to 4 armor 
units for train guns. For each armor unit given up, he can put one 
4/2 gun on each of the train counters (thus, if he exchanges 4 
armor units, the train will have 8 attacks, each with a strength of 
4 and range of 2, per turn). These guns have no separate defense 
strength; if the train counter goes, they go.
and may participate in another overrun. Any of the attacker’s 
units which had not yet moved may now move freely through the 
contested hex. Exception: If an enemy Ogre in the hex retains AP, 
infantry moving through the hex must overrun it.
8.09 Notes on overruns. Obviously, the defender has a great 
advantage in a situation where the attacker runs right into his 
guns. Infantry is powerful in an overrun; their weapons are more 
effective at close range, and their reactions are better. An Ogre’s 
robot reflexes make it deadly at close quarters, too.
Even a disabled unit can fight in overrun combat. Every vehicle 
carries a computer to aid in movement and fire control; should the 
crew be knocked out, the tank will continue to protect itself against 
immediate dangers. It won’t maneuver or make long-range shots – 
but it can take advantage of local cover and fire on enemies nearby.
It will rarely be to the attacker’s advantage to make an overrun 
unless he has a strongly superior force, or must clear a hex to open 
a line of movement. Overrunning a position in any but clear terrain 
is expensive. Overrunning an Ogre is usually suicide. Overrunning 
with an Ogre will clear out almost any position – but the Ogre may be 
badly battered in the process.
If the optional rules for damaging and destroying terrain are 
being used, overrun attacks automatically damage the terrain. See 
Section 13.01.2.
9.00
r
inforcements. Trains move only 
o 
g 
h
n
y 
o 
”
ys 
f, 
nt 
r, 
train
dest
(or m
track
that
Eith
the t
I
stan
othe
of a 
unle
I
cons
unit
4/2 
arm
4 an
stren

In an armed-train scenario, the counters may 
separate. Each is then treated as a one-counter 
train.
9.03.2 Terrain effects on train defense. If a 
train counter is in a town hex, its defense strength 
is doubled. Other terrain does not affect the train’s 
defense.
9.04 Overrun attacks on the train. If an 
unarmed train overruns, or is overrun by, a unit 
with a regular combat strength, it is destroyed. 
Even a disabled unit can destroy the train if it is in 
the same hex. Exception: An overrun onto the rear 
counter of the train, or either counter if the train is 
standing still, destroys only that counter.
If the train is armed, treat the overrun (or 
overrunning) hex of the train just like any other 
unit in resolving overrun combat.
9.05 Ramming the train. Ogres and armor 
units may ram a train counter by moving onto its 
hex, even if ramming rules are not otherwise in use. 
If an Ogre rams a train counter, the train counter is destroyed. 
The Ogre immediately loses half its remaining tread units (rounded 
up), suffers a 2-to-1 attack against each of its other components, 
and ends its movement. (Note that if an Ogre has no weapons left 
except AP, ramming is the only way it can attack the train.)
If a regular armor unit rams the train, the ramming unit is 
destroyed. The train counter suffers a 1-1 attack if the ramming unit 
was a Superheavy or a standard GEV, and a 1-2 attack if the ramming 
unit was any other armor unit.
9.06 Collisions. The owner of any unit in a rail hex may declare 
that unit to be on the track. A unit which got a road bonus last turn 
for moving on the track is automatically on the track. If the train 
moves onto a unit on the track, or multiple units in the same hex:
(a) If the enemy units are armed, even the weakest armed unit 
would be able to cut the tracks in front of the train as it 
approached. The train is destroyed. If the train is moving at 
speed 5 or better, the wrecked train may still strike the enemy 
units. Roll a 1-1 attack on every unit except infantry. Otherwise, 
the enemy units are unaffected. (Special case: If the enemy 
unit is an Ogre with no weapons other than AP, the result is the 
same as if the Ogre had rammed the train, per 9.05).
(b) If the enemy units are unarmed, the train collides with them. 
Roll a single attack on the train with an attack strength equal 
to the combined Size (p. 14) of the enemy units. The enemy 
units are destroyed.
9.07 Reinforcements from the train. A scenario may allow an 
unarmed train to bring in reinforcements. Only units of Size 3 or 
below may go on the train. Each half of the train may carry up to 
12 “size points” worth of armor (e.g., 4 Heavy Tanks, or 12 squads 
of infantry). If GEV-PCs are carried, the Size of any infantry riding 
them does not count.
Infantry may fire from the train unless they are mounted on
GEV-PCs within the train. Other units may not fire.
Infantry may leave the train freely at the beginning of any turn. 
Vehicles may only leave the train if it does not move on that turn. 
Only two vehicles per turn may exit each half of the train. They end 
their move on any adjacent hex which they can legally enter.
If a train counter is destroyed, each infantry squad on board 
suffers a 1-1 attack; survivors are free to move on their next turn. 
Armor units suffer a 1-1 attack, and all surviving armor units are 
considered “stuck,” as if they were in a swamp. If a scenario allows 
non-combat units (such as trucks) on board, they are destroyed if 
the train is destroyed.
Cruise Missiles are big, destructive weapons which can 
unbalance a game. Don’t use them in scenarios where there is only 
one target, because then the game comes down to one die roll. 
Players should not add Cruise Missiles to their forces until they 
have some experience. The best defense for Cruise Missiles is Lasers 
(Section 12). 
10.01 Background. Large missiles are very expensive, and 
vulnerable to defensive fire – especially from heavy lasers. However, 
they can still be cost-effective if used properly. A battlefield Cruise 
Missile has its own computer brain, steering jets, and enough BPC 
shielding to protect it from near misses; it flies only a few meters 
above the ground. Most Cruise Missiles are fired from protected 
sites in rear areas, but Missile Crawler units are available to take 
them close to the front when necessary.
10.02 Firing. One turn represents 4 minutes. In that time, 
a Cruise Missile can reach any point on the map (however big the 
map is) – unless it is intercepted. However, the farther the missile 
travels, the more likely it is to be successfully tracked and shot down. 
When a player wishes to fire a Cruise Missile, he does so during his 
fire phase. The missile starts at its crawler and immediately moves 
one hex at a time, by any route indicated by its owner, until it is 
intercepted, or its owner states that it has reached its target and is 
exploding. (Missile counters are provided, but a pointing finger will 
suffice.) Once a Cruise Missile is fired, it is tracked to its destination 
and its fate resolved before any more actions occur.
MISSILES
MISSILES
MISSILES 10.00

10.02.1 Fratricide. The explosion of a Cruise Missile will knock 
down any other missiles in the air nearby. Therefore, on a turn 
in which a player wishes to fire multiple Cruise Missiles, he must 
write down beforehand the number of missiles being fired, and 
each target hex. Missiles are resolved in the order written down. 
If a missile explodes, all remaining missiles aimed at that hex, or 
at any other target within six hexes of the explosion point, are 
lost; they are considered to have been destroyed by the explosion. 
Furthermore, no Cruise Missile fired later on that turn, whatever 
target it is aimed at, may pass within 6 hexes of the explosion site. 
Missiles already fired that turn are unaffected by fratricide (this 
avoids circular effects!).
10.03 Interception. A Cruise Missile may be attacked by any 
enemy unit when it passes within that unit’s attack range. Since 
the missile travels so quickly, each interception attempt is a single 
quick shot at low odds – but it takes little time, and does not affect 
the unit’s ability to move and fire on its next turn. Disabled units 
may not attempt interception.
10.03.1 Movement and interception procedure. The attacking 
player indicates the missile’s path, one hex at a time, counting each 
hex as it is entered. As each hex is entered, the defending player may 
attack the missile with any unit in range of that hex. A successful 
attack, as shown on the table below, destroys the missile. A unit 
may fire at the missile at any time while the missile is in range, but 
no unit may fire more than once against any single Cruise Missile. 
(Ogres and Superheavy Tanks may fire once with each weapon they 
have, except that Missile Racks may still be used only once per 
turn.) If two or more Cruise Missiles are fired during the same turn, 
each unit in range may attack each missile separately.
10.03.2 Attack odds. When attacking a Cruise Missile, a unit 
rolls two dice. The number on the table below, or higher, kills the 
missile. Note that the attacking unit receives a bonus if the missile 
is more than 10 hexes from its hex of origin. The farther a missile 
has gone, the easier it is to track and kill.
ATTACKS ON CRUISE MISSILES – Roll two dice
Any armor unit with attack strength 1 or 2 ......................... 12
Any armor unit with attack strength 3 or more ........11 or above
Each individual squad (1/1 unit) of infantry ..........11 or above
Each Ogre main or secondary battery .....................10 or above
Each Ogre missile .................................................9 or above
Laser or Laser Tower .............................................9 or above
Missile has traveled more than 10 hexes from origin ... +1 to roll
Missile has traveled more than 15 hexes from origin ... +2 to roll
Missile has traveled more than 20 hexes from origin, 
OR missile was fired from off the board ................... +3 to roll
10.03.3 Premature detonation. When a Cruise Missile is 
successfully attacked, the owning player rolls one die. On a roll 
of 1-5, the missile is simply shot down. On a roll of 6, the missile 
explodes in the hex where it was intercepted! Results are as in 
Section 10.04, below.
10.04 Detonation. When a Cruise Missile reaches its specified 
target hex, after the defending player has completed all interception 
attempts in that hex, the attacker announces that the missile is 
exploding. This devastates an area over a kilometer across. Remove 
all units, buildings, etc., in the hex it strikes. Place a crater marker 
in that hex, unless it is in a lake or river.
Units, buildings, and terrain in nearby hexes may also be 
affected by the radiation and shockwave, depending on their type 
and their distance from the explosion, as follows:
EFFECTS OF MISSILE EXPLOSION
UNIT TYPE 
RESULTS
 
 X 4-1 2-1 1-1 1-2 
Any D0 unit or any GEV* 
 1-2 3 4 
6+
D1 armor unit, hardened CP 1-2 – 3 
6+
D2 armor unit, hardened CP 1 
 2 3 
5+
D3+ armor unit, train, HCP – 
 1 2 
4+
Infantry (each squad) 
 – 2 
4+
Town or forest hex 
 1-3 4 5 
7+
Road, railroad, or bridge 
Ogre (each component) 
Building (20 or fewer SP) 
Building (21-50 SP) 
 _ 
 – – 
2+
Building (over 50 SP) 
 – – 
2+
* When a D0 unit or CP is hit by the shockwave, roll as for any 
other unit. A D result has no effect on CPs, and disables trucks and 
other D0 units.
To use this table, find the unit type in the first column. Read 
across to the distance in hexes from that unit to the explosion. Then 
read up to find the result: automatic destruction (X), no effect (NE), 
or an attack at a specified odds ratio.
Terrain may protect units outside the explosion hex. If a unit 
is in woods or swamp, treat it as being one hex farther from the 
explosion. If it is in a town hex, or underwater, treat it as being two 
hexes farther away. Infantry in a rubble hex is also treated as being 
two hexes farther away.
When Structure Points of a building, or Ogre treads, are the 
target, divide the total number of SPs or tread units by 5. Round up, 
and roll that many separate attacks. Each X destroys 5 SPs or treads. 
If a damaged building is the target, use its current SP value, rather 
than its original value, to determine which line of the table to read.
10.05 Off-board missiles. Some scenarios allow one player to 
use Cruise Missiles fired from off the board – i.e., from protected 
sites some distance away. These are treated exactly like crawler-
fired missiles except that:
(a) The scenario will specify an “origin area” for each off-board 
missile. The missile must enter from this area.
(b) Since an off-board missile has already traveled a long way 
before reaching the combat zone, the enemy is assumed 
to have tracked it already, and each unit firing on it gets an 
automatic +3 bonus to its roll. No further bonus is received, 
no matter how far the missiles travel once they are on the map.
10.06 Post-firing tactics. Once a missile is fired, a Crawler has 
no further combat value for that game. However, it represents a 
large investment, and the owning player should try to protect it to 
deny victory points (see back cover of Scenarios) to the enemy. 

11.01 General. The CP units in Ogre and G.E.V. represent small 
structures, protected mostly by ECM and perhaps a few centimeters 
of BPC or a few meters of earth. The town hexes are assumed to 
consist of ordinary wood and brick construction. A large building, 
built from steel and concrete and armored as heavily as an Ogre, 
is much sturdier. No single attack with anything less than a Cruise 
Missile will destroy such a building.
11.02 Building Types. There are five different types of building 
counter; see Section 3.06 for descriptions. Buildings of a given type 
may vary in the number of Structure Points (SP) they have, since 
some are more strongly built than others. Scenarios will specify 
building types and SP.
11.03 Structure Points. 
The strength of each building 
is measured in Structure Points 
(SP), as shown on a separate 
Structure Point marker. 
When a building is attacked, 
it loses structure points; keep 
track of this on a piece of paper, 
using the building’s hex number to identify it. When a building’s 
SPs are reduced to 0, it is destroyed.
11.04 Attacks on buildings. Buildings may be attacked by 
regular fire, in an overrun attack, or by ramming.
11.04.1 Regular attacks. Any unit with an attack strength may 
attack a building. AP weapons have no effect on buildings, but all 
other weapons automatically hit if fired at a building within range. 
Any weapon does damage equal to twice its attack strength. 
Thus, an Ogre main battery, with an attack strength of 4, 
would do 8 SP damage to a building.
If a building is in town or forest, attacks are halved 
to normal attack strength. Thus, an Ogre main battery, 
with its attack strength of 4, would do only 4 SP damage to 
a building in town.
11.04.2 Overrun attacks. When a building is attacked in 
an overrun – i.e., when the attackers are in the same hex as 
the building – damage is doubled: each attack does damage 
equal to four times the weapon’s attack strength. Each unit 
or weapon may only attack a building twice per overrun, 
regardless of the number of “fire rounds” that are exchanged 
between the attacking units and any defenders in the hex. 
Note, though, that attackers which still have movement left 
after an overrun may expend another movement point, stay 
in the same hex, and make another overrun attack!
If a building in a town or forest is overrun, damage is 
doubled for overrun and halved for terrain, so the net effect 
is that damage is twice the weapon’s attack strength.
11.04.3 Ramming buildings. An Ogre may ram 
a building as though it were ramming a larger Ogre 
(Section 6.05). Thus, any Ogre loses five tread units each time 
it rams a building. The Ogre rolls dice, as per the Size Table, to 
determine how many SP the building loses, but it rolls one more die 
than it would if ramming another Ogre.
Some other units can ram buildings, per the Size Table on p. 14. 
A Heavy Tank or Superheavy may ram once per turn. It undergoes 
a 1-2 attack when it rams. If optional rule 13.07 is in use, a SHVY 
instead loses treads as an Ogre Mark I. GEVs and GEV-PCs can only 
damage a building by crashing into it at full speed – which, of 
course, destroys the hovercraft as well. Other units are too slow, or 
too light, to affect a building by ramming.
11.04.4 Spillover attacks. Buildings are not affected by 
spillover fire.
11.05 Stacking. Any number of buildings may be placed in a 
single hex. Buildings do not count against the stacking limit for 
armor units in a hex. Other units (unless specified for a scenario) 
get no protection from being located in the same hex as a building.
11.06 Building identification. Each flat building counter 
shows only the word “Building” on the reverse side, to allow 
scenarios in which some or all buildings are unidentified at the 
beginning of combat. In such a case, a building counter is turned 
right-side-up, and the building identified, when any enemy unit 
passes within 3 hexes.
12.00
12.01 General. Laser units are primarily for missile defense, 
but can also be used against attacking units. Defensively, they are 
buildings with Structure Points; see Section 11.
12.02 Standard Lasers. A standard laser turret 
has a range of 30 hexes. Its line of ﬁ re is blocked 
by ridge hexsides or any raised terrain – i.e., forest, 
swamp (assumed to contain trees), towns, or rubble.
To determine laser line of sight, place a straightedge 
between the centers of the laser hex and target hex. If the 
line enters or crosses any forbidden terrain, or runs along 
a line between two hexes of forbidden terrain, the laser 
cannot ﬁ re. Otherwise, it can ﬁ re.
12.03 Laser Towers. A laser tower mounts the same 
type of laser that a standard emplacement does. Its height 
makes it more vulnerable, but also gives it a much greater 
range: 60 hexes. A laser tower can ﬁ re over any type of 
terrain, but cannot attack a unit that is actually in a town, 
swamp, forest, or rubble hex. Exception: A laser tower 
can always ﬁ re on a Cruise Missile in range, because the 
missile ﬂ ies over terrain rather than hiding within it.
12.04 Attacks against Cruise Missiles. Each laser 
or laser tower can ﬁ re once at each Cruise Missile that 
comes within its range. The defender decides when to 
ﬁ re. The chance of a hit is determined by the table in 
Section 10.03.2. A hit destroys the missile.
11.00

These rules may be used to add detail when the basic game is 
fully mastered. They may be used in any combination.
13.01 Damage to terrain and roads.
Damage to terrain can be tactically useful, and 
is an objective in some scenarios. Each hex has 
a defense strength of 4 and may be attacked 
separately, as though it were a unit. Calculate 
spillover fire normally on any units in the hex.
If a town or forest hex gets a D result, it is 
damaged. All roads through that hex are cut. 
Place an overlay with the damaged version of that 
terrain. It will cover the road. Effects on movement 
and defense strength are otherwise unchanged.
If a damaged town or forest hex gets another D
result, or if any town or forest hex gets an X result, 
it is turned to rubble. Place a rubble overlay (left) 
on the hex. Ogres and Superheavies treat rubble 
as clear terrain. Other units treat rubble as swamp. 
Any road or railroad through the hex is cut.
A clear or swamp hex can be attacked, as above. A D or X result 
cuts the road or railroad, but no result changes the terrain type. 
Place an overlay showing the same terrain type, covering the road.
13.01.1 Weak attacks. In the event that a hex is attacked by a 
lone unit with an attack strength of 1, allow it a 1-2 attack on every 
second turn.
13.01.2 Spillover and overrun damage to terrain. If a regular 
attack is made against a unit in a town or forest hex (or any hex 
containing a road or railroad), a spillover attack is rolled against 
the hex’s defense of 4. As with other spillover attacks, the attack 
is at half strength, D results are ignored, and X counts as D. This 
means only attacks with a base strength of 8 or more can have any 
spillover effect on the terrain! 
When overrun combat takes place in an undamaged hex, the hex 
becomes damaged as of the end of the overrun, regardless of the size 
of the combat. Overrun combat in an already-damaged hex does not 
damage it further.
13.01.3 Automatic destruction of roads and railroads. Any 
unit may spend its attack against a road or railroad in the same hex, 
destroying it automatically. Place a Road Cut marker. The hex itself 
is not damaged.
The road or railroad in a hex is also cut if the hex is damaged or 
turned to rubble (see 13.01).
13.02 Destruction of bridges. Where a road or railroad crosses 
a stream hexside, there is a stream bridge with a defense strength of 
D6. It lies in two hexes and can be attacked by firing at either hex. 
Fire on both of its hexes can be combined for effect. Only an X result 
destroys a bridge. If the bridge is destroyed, the road is cut. Place 
an overlay showing a stream with a downed bridge.
If a stream bridge is attacked by a unit in one of its own two 
hexes, it is automatically destroyed.
Stream bridges are considered to be BPC-armored, and are not 
affected by anything except direct attacks.
13.02.1 Attacks on large bridges. A bridge which crosses a full 
hex (such as G1-2013) has a defense strength of 8. A river bridge 
lies in three hexes – the river hex and the adjoining road hexes – 
and can be attacked by firing at any of them. Fire on any of its hexes 
can be combined for effect. If a river bridge is attacked by a unit in 
one of its own three hexes, it is automatically destroyed.
River bridges are considered to be BPC-armored, and are not 
affected by anything except direct attacks. Exception: An attack on 
a unit on the center hex of the bridge gives an automatic, separate 
attack, of the same strength, on the bridge itself.
13.02.2 Results of river bridge destruction. If a river bridge 
is destroyed, place a “Bridge Out” overlay on it. GEVs can no longer 
cross the river surface in that hex – and, of course, units cannot 
cross the river on the destroyed bridge. For movement purposes, 
all units treat that hex as the worse of swamp or rubble. For defense 
purposes, the hex is rubble.
When a river bridge is destroyed, any unit on its center hex is 
also destroyed, except an Ogre. An Ogre falls into the river in that 
hex. Four dice are rolled; this is the amount of damage done to 
the Ogre’s treads. Each other component of the Ogre immediately 
suffers a 1-1 attack.
13.03 Ogre equivalents. When purchasing armor units, Ogres 
may be substituted. The following table shows how many armor units 
(or 3-squad infantry counters) each Ogre is worth. For example, if a 
scenario calls for 30 armor units, a player could instead take an Ogre 
Mark II (worth 8 armor units) and 22 armor units.
Unless a scenario specifically suggests substituting Ogres, using 
these equivalents is always optional. Some scenarios will become 
badly unbalanced by the addition of an Ogre, especially a big one. 
The values for units larger than Mark III-B are only guidelines, 
depending entirely on the map and objectives. The Mark VI and 
Doppelsoldner are not at all recommended for scenarios that use 
only a single map, unless the entire objective is a slugfest!
The cost of special-purpose cybertanks (Ninja, Vulcan) depends 
on the scenario, but should be at least 25 armor units (150 VP), if 
they can be “bought” at all.
13.00
A l
12.05 Attacks against Ogre missiles. A laser or laser tower 
can attempt to intercept each Ogre missile on the turn it is ﬁ red. 
No other unit may do so – Ogre missiles are smaller and faster than 
Cruise Missiles. To hit an Ogre missile, the laser must roll a 10 or 
above on two dice. (Missiles from a Missile Tank are too small and 
fast for a laser to attack at all.)
12.06 Attacks against other units. If a laser or laser tower did 
not ﬁ re at all during the preceding enemy turn, it may make one 
attack during its own ﬁ re phase. It has an attack strength of 2, and 
may attack any unit within the restrictions of 12.02 and 12.03.
12.07 Damage. When a laser or laser tower is reduced to 10 SP, 
it is “damaged.” Place a “Damaged” marker. The laser can no longer 
ﬁ re, but it is not actually destroyed until it is reduced to 0 SP.
12.08 Spillover ﬁ re. A laser attack does not give spillover ﬁ re 
on units stacked with the target. If a vehicle is the target, the attack 
does aﬀ ect infantry riding on that vehicle (Section 5.11).
12.09 Overruns. A laser being overrun ﬁ res at double strength 
(4), because of the close range. However, a damaged laser (Section 
12.07) does not ﬁ re at all.

Mark I ........................................................... 4 armor units
Mark II .......................................................... 8 armor units
Mark III ........................................................17 armor units
Mark III-B .....................................................20 armor units
Fencer ..........................................................22 armor units
Fencer-B .......................................................23 armor units
Mark IV, V .....................................................25 armor units
Ninja, Vulcan .....25 armor units or more, depending on scenario
Mark VI, Doppelsoldner ...................................40 armor units
13.04 Mines. The defender is given a predetermined number 
of mines. He places them in whatever hexes he wishes, recording 
the hex numbers and whether they are on the road. Any number of 
mines may be placed in a hex, and only one goes off at a time. The 
attacker does not know which hexes are mined.
If a mine is on a road, it explodes when any unit enters that hex 
on the road, but is unaffected if a unit enters the hex without using 
the road.
If a mine is not on a road, it explodes only on a die roll of 6 (5 or 6 
for an Ogre). Mines that fail to go off are unaffected, but by entering 
the hex, the opposing player learns that it is mined.
A mine explosion affects only the unit setting it off. Armor units 
are destroyed; infantry is reduced by 1 squad; an Ogre rolls 1 die 
and loses that many tread units. The mine itself is destroyed. A 
mine explosion on a bridge hex destroys it; a mine explosion on a 
road or railroad creates a road cut. Mines are not large enough to 
turn towns or forest to rubble.
13.05 Camouflage. Some or all defending units are optically 
and electronically masked. The attacker(s) can detect the presence 
of each unit, but not its nature. The defender sets up his forces and 
then replaces each camouflaged unit with a numbered ? counter. 
He keeps a list of what unit is represented by each number. As soon 
as any camouflaged unit moves or fires, or as soon as an enemy unit 
moves through or fires on its hex, the ? marker is replaced by the 
real unit.
13.06 Dummy units. The defender sets up with some extra 
counters, placing a “Dummy” marker underneath each one. He 
places an equal number of ? markers under other counters so it’s not 
obvious which units are dummies. A dummy may be camouflaged.
 A dummy cannot move or fire, and is removed when an enemy 
unit moves through or fires on its hex. A ? counter under a real unit 
is removed when that unit moves, fires, or is disabled.
13.07 Partial Damage for Superheavies. A Superheavy Tank 
may be treated as a small manned Ogre, with its own record sheet. 
The ability to survive an X result with only partial damage makes SHVY 
units considerably tougher. Increase SHVY cost to 3 armor units.
D results have their normal effect, but a second D has no further 
result; D results don’t combine into an X.
On any X result, roll one die.
1, 2 One main gun and one AP gun are lost. Unit is disabled. If 
both main guns were already gone, unit is destroyed.
Tread damage. Roll 1 die and mark off that many treads. Unit 
is disabled.
Major tread damage. Roll 2 dice and mark off that many 
treads. Unit is disabled.
Mobility kill; mark off all treads. Unit is disabled.
Unit is destroyed, as with a normal X result.
SHVY RECORD SHEET
Guns (3/3) 
AP (1/1) 
(not attacked separately)
Tread units are also lost if the SHVY rams a building or Size 5+ 
unit, or is rammed by a Size 5+ unit. It cannot be automatically 
destroyed by a ram.
18 Tread Units:
3 hexes 
 
2 hexes 
 
1 hex 
 
T
it
l
l
t if th SHVY
b ildi
Si
Explanation of CRT Results
 
►NE indicates “no effect” to 
the unit attacked.
 
►X indicates destruction of the 
unit attacked; remove it from 
the board.
 
►The intermediate result is a
D. An infantry unit is imme-
diately reduced by one squad. 
An armor unit (or a hardened 
CP) is “disabled.” A disabled 
unit cannot fire or move; turn 
the counter over. If it receives 
another D result while dis-
abled, it is destroyed.
A unit disabled by ramming 
or enemy fire recovers after one 
full enemy turn has passed. If it 
becomes disabled on an enemy 
turn, it remains disabled through 
that enemy turn, through its own 
turn, and through the next enemy 
turn; it then recovers. If disabled 
on its own turn by making a ram 
(6.07.1, 11.04.3), it remains 
disabled through the enemy turn 
and recovers on its next turn.
A unit disabled by entering 
terrain remains disabled through 
the enemy turn and rolls to 
recover on its next turn.
A D result does not affect the 
train or Ogres.
Spillover CRT results. When 
spillover fire (7.12) occurs, each 
result on the CRT is “taken down” 
one step. A D result is read as NE, 
and an X is read as a D. To affect 
a unit with a spillover, you must 
roll an X – and then it counts only 
as a D.
Overrun CRT results. When an 
overrun attack (Section 8) occurs, 
treat any D or X result to non-Ogre 
units as an X. Only a true X affects 
an Ogre, though.
Combat odds are always rounded off in favor of the defender. 
Attacks at less than 1 to 2 are always NE. 
Attacks at 5 to 1 or better are an automatic X.
COMBAT RESULTS TABLE
Die 
Roll
1-2
1-1
2-1
3-1
4-1
Combat Odds