Page 1/4
Aim of the game
In order to receive the grace of the emperor you have to be the first to archieve 
one of these three winning conditions in the imperial garden: 
	
A row of 4 characters of your pattern (it can be a vertical, horizontal or 
diagonal row);
	
A square (2x2) of four characters of your pattern;
	
Block your opponent, so that they can’t make a move.
Set up
Shuffle the 16 garden tiles carefully, and randomly put them face up into a square of 4x4.
Take each of your 8 characters, of the same pattern, and stand on either side of the garden.
How to play
In the first game the first player is chosen randomly. In the next games, the first player is always the one 
who has lost the previous game.
This first player chooses a tile on the outside border of the garden (that means that the starting player is 
not allowed to choose one of the 4 middle tileson the first turn). 
They place this tile between the two players, and replace it in the garden with one of their character tokens.
The opponent must now place one of their character tokens in the garden, by replacing a garden tile that 
shares an element in common with the tile that was just removed:
	
- the same vegetation (Maple leaves, Cherry tree, Pine tree or Iris)
 or
	
- the same symbol (Rising sun, Poem, Bird, Rain or Cloud)
They remove the chosen tile, replacing it with one of their character tokens. They place the garden tile 
on top of the previously removed tile to cover it and have it visible for all to see. It indicates the new 
constraints imposed on the next player.
The game is played until one of the winning conditions is reached:
Completion of a vertical, horizontal or diagonal row of 4 characters of your pattern;
Completion of a square of 4 characters of your pattern;
Block your opponent, so that they can’t move anymore
Example: The constraint requires a player to play EITHER on a Cherry tree tile, OR on a Bird 
tile. If none of the remaining tiles features any of these 2 symbols, the opponent cannot 
play and loses the game!
End of the game
Depending on how much time you would like to play, you can choose one of the following three 
alternatives: 
	
ӳ Single game: you only play one game. The winner of the round wins the game. 
	
ӳ Match in three sets: The match continues until one of the players has won 3 games. 
	
ӳ Match of victory points: The winner of a game gains as many victory points as there are garden tiles left 
in the garden. The game ends when one player achieves 10 points (for longer matches you can play until 
one achieves 15 or 20 points). 
RULES
Do not print on both sides
Bruno Cathala
Cyril Bouquet

Page 2/4
Player 1 tokens + Player 2 tokens

Page 2/4
Player 2 tokens + Tiles part 1

Page 3/4
Cut along the dotted line!
Draw as you like!
Warning!
There are 2 types of characters tokens, a type with a background 
pattern for Player 1 and a type without a pattern for Player 2.
Tiles part 2