A game by Philippe Keyaerts - Illustrations by Arnaud Demaegd - Design by C. Demaegd & S. Gantiez
Rules
At the dawn of civilization, take the destiny of a whole people into 
your hands. In front of you, the plains of the Peloponnese stretch 
out. In the distance, the bright shores of the mythical Atlantis. 
However, in order to create a stable environment in this promised 
land, you will need to defeat your enemies, develop technologies, 
build wonders, and above all pray for the clemency of the gods who 
watch your every action from on high in their abode on Olympos!
www.ystari.com

Preparation
(4 players)
Place the game board and the development board 
in the centre of the table. Discard those Discovery tiles 
with a 5 on the back (they will not be used during the game). 
Sort the remaining Discovery tiles by type: for example, the 
two Oracle tiles go together. There are two of each Discov-
ery with a red, green, yellow or blue back, and one of each 
with a purple back. Set up the Discovery tiles on the devel-
opment board as follows, one pile per column (see page 11):
Distribute the 5 piles of 2 red-backed Discovery tiles 
randomly along the first row of the board.
Distribute the 5 piles of 2 yellow-backed Discovery 
tiles randomly along the second row of the board.
Distribute the 5 piles of 2 green-backed Discovery 
tiles randomly along the third row of the board.
Distribute the 5 piles of 2 blue-backed Discovery tiles 
randomly along the fourth row of the board.
Distribute the 5 purple-backed Discovery tiles ran-
domly along the fifth row of the board.
Distribute the 5 Wonder tiles randomly along the 
sixth row of the board. 
Sort out the remaining tokens along with the re-
source cubes and place them to one side of the board 
as a general stock.
Each player chooses a color and takes 5 Settler tokens in 
that color, keeping 4 in front of them as their personal stock. 
The fifth token is placed on the starting space of the Time Track. 
The order of these tokens must be determined randomly.
The player whose token is at the bottom of the stack 
takes 2 Territory tokens of each type from the gen-
eral stock and selects 8 territories that will not be used in 
the game, marking each selected territory with one of the 
tokens, cross side face up. Only one territory of a given 
type containing a star may be removed in this way. 
Note: the number of starred territories that are marked (0 to 
4) affects the difficulty of building wonders.
Place one Tribe token on each territory containing a star 
that hasn’t been marked.
Take 4 different resource cubes from the general 
stock and give one randomly to each player. These are add-
ed to the players’ personal stocks.
Shuffle the Destiny cards and put them face down next 
to the board.
Shuffle the Olympos cards and place one face down 
next to each of the 3 Zeus spaces on the Time Track. Place 2 
Olympos cards face down next to each of the 3 Double Zeus 
spaces on the Time Track. Discard the remaining Olympos 
card without looking at it: it will not be used during the 
Contents of the box
55 “Discovery” tiles
5 “Wonder” tiles
1 development board

B
D
F
E
H
A) Start of the Time Track	 	
	
B) “Zeus” space	
	
	
	
C) “Double Zeus” space
D) Northern area (settler starting point)	
E) Olympos (Stone + Zeus)	
	
F) Territory (Wood + Star)
G) Atlantis	
	
	
	
H) Mandatory end of the game
Note: the islands I are considered to be land areas. Those islands that are not surrounded are not used in the game.
10 “Olympos” 
cards
32 territory tokens/“Cross” (on the back) 
Orange (Grain), White (Stone), Brown (Wood), Yellow (Gold) 
28 “Prestige” tokens
12 “Hourglass” tokens
8 “Tribe” tokens/“Star”
100 “Settler” tokens in 5 colors
28 “Resource” cubes in 4 colors: 
Orange (Grain), White (Stone), Brown (Wood), Yellow (Gold)
22 “Destiny” 
cards
C
A
1 “Zeus” token
1 game board

Aim of the game
The players represent tribes who are trying to colonise 
Greece and its surroundings, including the legendary At-
lantis. By taking over territories and resources (sometimes 
by force), they will acquire scientific discoveries and archi-
tectural marvels that will enable them to build a prosperous 
and glorious civilization. At the end of the game, the most 
prestigious civilization wins.
Playing the game 
(4 players)
Turn order is determined by the position of the play-
ers on the Time Track, which runs round the edge of the 
board. The player who is last on the Time Track carries 
out an action, which will cost action points (see later). 
Then the player “pays” for the action by moving his token 
along the Time Track. If this moves the token onto an al-
ready occupied space, it is placed on top of the other one. 
Now it is the turn of the player who is currently furthest 
back on the Time Track to take an action. And so on.
Notes: 
- it is perfectly possible for one player to have multiple turns 
in a row. This will occur if he is still in last place on the Time 
Track even after “paying” for his action.
- If more than one player is on the same space (as, for ex-
ample, at the beginning of the game) then the player whose 
token is on top of the stack plays first.
Hourglass tokens: at certain points in the game, play-
ers will earn Hourglass tokens. These enable the player to 
carry out actions without having to advance on the Time 
Track (1 Hourglass equals 1 action point). Any Hourglass 
tokens must be used up first to pay for actions before 
payment by advancing on the Time Track. 
 
 
 
 
Example: Red is in last position on the Time Track. It is 
therefore her turn. She carries out an action that costs 3 action 
points. She has an Hourglass token in hand. Therefore, she 
must spend the token first (1 point) and then moves her token 
forward 2 spaces to pay for the rest of the action. The red token 
is stacked on top of the green one. Since she is therefore still 
in last place on the Time Track, she plays again. Afterwards, it 
will be Green’s turn… 
Players have the choice between 2 actions on 
their turn: Expansion or Development.
A) Expansion
Expansion consists of moving one of his settlers on the 
main board. The aim of the movement is to conquer a new 
territory, either peacefully or through combat. The player 
can either move a settler already on the board, or place and 
move a new settler. The action is paid for at the end of the 
movement. 
New settler: to create a new settler, the player must 
have at least one in his personal stock. The new settler can 
be placed either on the northern zone or on a territory 
already owned by the player. Creating a new settler 
costs 2 action points. The new settler must be moved 
immediately.
Notes: the northern zone is only used when placing new set-
tlers. Settlers may not stay there, nor may they cross it during 
the game. The discovery of Medicine enables new settlers to be 
added at a cost of only 1 point.
Movement: player may move a settler as many spaces 
as they like. It can cross territories that already contain a 
settler (including those belonging to another player) as well 
as empty ones. It may not stop in a territory that contains 
a Cross token, but is allowed to pass through it. The move-
ment cost depends on the number of spaces entered:
Entering a land space costs 1 action point;
Entering a sea space costs 2 action points.
Note: the Horse-riding, Astronomy and Map-making discov-
eries reduce movement costs.

New territory: a player who stops his movement on 
an empty territory automatically gains control of 
it. To show possession, take a Territory token correspond-
ing to the resource produced by the territory. If the player 
leaves the territory later in the game, the relevant token 
must be returned to the general stock. The Olympos terri-
tory provides a Zeus token to whoever controls it.
Combat: a player may also decide to end movement on 
a territory controlled by another player. In that case, they 
must fight. Combat is won automatically by the attacker, 
but the cost depends on the two players’ military forces. 
Military force is measured by the military discoveries 
that the two players have. Each such discovery has a num-
ber of Sword symbols on it. These determine the cost of 
combat:
If the attacker has more Sword symbols than 
the defender, the attack costs 1 action point;
If both players have the same number of Sword 
symbols (including zero), the attack costs 2 ac-
tion points;
If the attacker has fewer Sword symbols than the 
defender, the attack costs 3 action points.
The attacker then places his token on top of the defen-
der’s token. The latter gives the attacker a Territory token 
corresponding to the resource produced by the territory 
(and a Zeus token, if the territory is Olympos) and re-
ceives an Hourglass token from the general stock. The 
attacker now controls this area until either he is in turn at-
tacked, or he leaves the territory, in which case control re-
verts to the player whose token is on top of the stack.
Note: a territory may be attacked even if other combats have 
already taken place there and there is therefore a stack of to-
kens in place as a result. 
Flee: on his turn, a player whose token is underneath an-
other player’s in the territory may freely leave the territory. 
He may also leave the token in place for as long as he wants. 
The token that is moved may immediately return to initiate 
combat. However, the token must leave the area and then 
return: it cannot simply attack “in place”. A player who has 
lost the control of a territory may not add new settlers 
there, even though he may still have a token in the stack.
Tribes: territories marked with a star are strategic sites, 
occupied by tribes at the beginning of the game. Players 
must fight them in order to take control of the territory. 
Combat occurs as described above: the tribes do not pos-
sess any Swords. Once the tribe has been defeated, the 
attacking player takes a Territory token corresponding to 
the resource produced by the territory as well as the Tribe 
marker, which he places Star side up in front of him. If an-
other player takes control of the territory, both the Territo-
ry token and the Star token are transferred to the attacker. 
If the player leaves the territory, the Star token is placed 
back in the territory. If a player then (re)takes control of the 
territory, there is no combat (the tribe having been wiped 
out earlier): the “attacker” simply takes the Territory token 
and the Star token.
End of movement: at the end of his movement, the 
player adds up the points spent (new settler, move-
ment, combat) and advances that number of spaces 
on the Time Track. This ends the player’s turn.
Example: White has the Astronomy discovery, enabling 
him to cross sea spaces at the cost of 1 action point, and the 
Hoplite discovery, which gives him one Sword. He decides 
to attack Blue, who has no Swords. White creates a new set-
tler (cost: 2 points), crosses two sea spaces (cost: 1 point per 
space), enters Blue’s territory (cost: 1 point for the land space) 
and attacks (cost: 1 point, because White has more Swords). 
Blue is conquered and therefore gives White a Wood Territory 
token and a Star token (as shown on the conquered territory). 
As compensation for the attack, Blue receives an Hourglass 
token. White pays for the move by advancing his token 6 spac-
es on the Time Track. His turn is now over.

B) Development
Development consists of either making a discovery or 
building a wonder.
1) Discovery: to make a discovery, the player must have 
both the Territory tokens and/or the resource cubes re-
quired to pay for it. Territory tokens correspond to resourc-
es that the player has permanently available. The tokens are 
not used up when paying for a discovery. Resource cubes 
correspond to a single resource. When they are used to pay 
for a discovery, they must be returned to the general stock.
Note: certain discoveries do not require a specific resource, 
but they do require a specific combination of resources.
Example:
- To develop Surgery (top/left), the player must pay 2 Grain 
and 2 Wood.
- To develop Science (bottom/left), the player must pay 3 
Grain and any 2 identical other resources (not Grain), such as 
2 Gold.
- To develop Strategy (top/right), the player must pay 3 
identical resources and 1 other different resource (for example, 
3 Gold and 1 Wood).
- To develop Philosophy (bottom/right), the player must pay 
two pairs of resources and two other resources, all different. 
For example, 2 Grain, 2 Wood, 1 Gold and 1 Stone.
The resources used are either Territory tokens or resource 
cubes or both. For example, a player could pay for Surgery with 
2 Grain Territory tokens and a Wood Territory token (all of 
which he keeps) and a Wood cube (which is returned to 
the general stock).
Acquisition: if a player can pay for a discovery using 
a combination of Territory tokens and/or resource cubes, 
then he simply takes the Discovery tile concerned and plac-
es it in front of him. He is now allowed to use the tile’s spe-
cial power (see last page).
Note: a player can only make a given discovery once. It is 
therefore impossible to discover Agriculture twice, for exam-
ple.
Bonus: the player then takes one of his color’s tokens 
from the general stock and places it on any available 
space below the discovery he has just acquired on the de-
velopment board. However, if the discovery allows 3 bonus 
options (red and green backed discoveries), the player may 
not take the grey bonus as that is reserved for the 5-play-
er game. The player immediately takes the bonus and adds 
it to his personal stock. This bonus is no longer available for 
other players who make the same discovery.
Bonus: 
- A: the player takes one of his tokens from the general stock 
and adds it to his personal stock. It can be added to the game 
board on a subsequent turn.
- B: the player takes 2 Hourglasses.
- C: the player takes 1 Gold resource cube.
- D: the player takes 2 Prestige points which he places face 
down in front of him.
Note: discoveries on the fifth row do not provide any bo-
nuses.
Cost: 7 action points. The player therefore moves his to-
ken 7 spaces along the Time Track. This ends his turn.
Note: the Money and Agriculture discoveries reduce this 
cost.
A
B
C
D

Example: Blue decides to develop Strategy (3 identical re-
sources and 1 different). Blue has Grain, Grain and Wood Ter-
ritory tokens as well as a Grain cube. He can therefore acquire 
Strategy by discarding the cube.
Blue takes the Strategy tile and adds it to his personal stock: 
he now has 2 Swords for use in combat. He must now select a 
bonus. To mark his choice, he takes one of his tokens from the 
general stock and puts it on the bonus.
He decides to take a new settler and therefore puts his to-
ken on that bonus, and then takes one of his settlers from the 
general stock and adds it to his personal stock. He now has a 
new settler that he can play onto the main board in a later turn.
Blue must now pay for his action. He therefore advances his 
token 7 spaces on the Time Track. This ends his turn.
2) Wonders: each Wonder costs the number of Stars 
shown. To build a Wonder, the player must have the correct 
number of Star symbols. Players acquire a star:
For each Star token in front of them;
If they own the Architecture or Engineering discove-
ries;
For each bonus token in the same column as the 
Wonder concerned;
For certain cards.
The player then takes the Wonder tile and places it in 
front of him. This Wonder will earn him victory points at 
the end of the game.
Cost: 7 action points. The player therefore advances his 
token 7 spaces on the Time Track. This ends his turn.
Note: the Architecture discovery reduces this cost.
Wonders: the Lion Gate, the Stadium, the Parthenon, the 
Statue of Zeus and the Colossus, 
Example: Green has 2 Star tokens, the Architecture disco-
very (one extra Star) and 2 bonus tokens in the Stadium col-
umn (a 5-star Wonder).
He can therefore build this Wonder by advancing 5 spaces 
on the Time Track (taking into account the reduction provided 
by Architecture).
He takes the Stadium and places it in front of him. This 
will earn him 10 prestige points at the end of the game.

Destiny Cards
During the game, the players will draw Destiny cards. 
These provide various bonuses.
Draw a card: whenever a player reaches or passes a 
Zeus space on the Time Track, he draws a Destiny card at 
the end of his turn. The card can be played immediately.
Play a card: players may play as many cards as they 
wish during their turn. The effects are applied immediately. 
If a card provides prestige points, they are placed face down 
in front of the player earning them.
Note: the Oracle discovery enables the player who owns it to 
improve the Destiny card deck.
Olympos Cards
During the game, 9 gods will turn up to interrupt the 
players’ actions. These events are triggered when certain 
players reach specific spaces on the Time Track, marked 
with a Zeus symbol:
For the first two and the last Zeus space on the Time 
Track, an Olympos card is drawn at the end of the turn 
of the first player to reach the space (and after the 
Destiny card has been drawn). The effects of this card 
are therefore applied before the next player starts their 
turn.
For the three Double Zeus spaces, an Olympos card is 
drawn at the end of the turn of the first player to 
reach the space. A further Olympos card is drawn at 
the end of the turn of the last player to reach the 
space. In both cases, the effects of the card are applied 
before the next player starts their turn.
The player can discard this 
card in order to help build a 
Wonder. It is worth 1 Star.
The player gains 1 resource cube of 
the color shown.
If the player has a Territory token 
of each type, he earns 3 points.
The player earns 1 point for 
each Wood Territory token he 
owns.
The player earns 1 Hour-
glass for each Grain Ter-
ritory token he owns.
The player earns 3 Hourglass 
tokens if he has more Stone 
Territory tokens than each of 
the other players individually.
To be played after an Olympos 
card is drawn. The player adds 
a Zue token to his total then dis-
cards the card.

Zeus: the player with the most 
Zeus symbols earns 3 points, which 
he places face down in front of him.
Hecate: the player with the most 
Zeus symbols takes 1 settler from 
the general stock and adds it to his 
personal stock.
Artemis: the player with the most 
Zeus symbols earns a resource cube 
of his choice.
Athena: the player with the most 
Zeus symbols earns 1 Star. This Star 
can only be used to help build a 
Wonder, after which it is discarded.
Ares: the player with the most Zeus 
symbols earns 2 Swords. These 
Swords remain active until the 
next Olympos card is drawn.
Hades: the player with the fewest 
Zeus symbols loses 1 settler of his 
choice from the board. The settler 
is returned to the player’s perso-
nal stock.
Keres: the player with the 
fewest Zeus symbols loses 2 
prestige points at the end of the 
Siren: the player with the fewest 
Zeus symbols may not enter any 
sea space until the next Olym-
pos card is drawn.
Nemesis: the player with the 
fewest Zeus symbols discards all 
their Destiny cards.
Erinyes: the next action of 
the player with the fewest Zeus 
symbols costs 2 points more.
Effect: half of the cards have a beneficial effect and half 
have a detrimental effect. However, these events won’t nec-
essarily affect all the players. To see who is affected by a 
given card, the players add up all the Zeus symbols they 
have (whether on discoveries, on Zeus tokens, or on Desti-
ny cards that they play after the Olympos card is revealed):
If the effect is beneficial, it is applied to the player(s) 
with the most Zeus symbols (at least one Zeus 
symbol) when the card is drawn. 
If the effect is detrimental, it is applied to the player(s) 
with the fewest Zeus symbols (or none at all).
The Artemis and Hades cards are applied in a clockwise 
direction, starting with the player who drew the card.
Advice: in order to show which players are affected by cer-
tain gods (Athena, Ares, Keres, Siren and Erinyes), the players 
concerned should place one of their tokens from the general 
reserve on the card.

End of the game
When a player has passed the last Zeus space on the 
Time Track and it is his turn again, he has the option of 
passing or taking a final turn. If he passes, that ends 
his game. If he takes a final turn, he undertakes one last 
action but this must not result in him going past the Cross 
space. When all the players have finished, the points are 
added up.
Note: the remaining players continue playing until they have 
each reached or passed the last Zeus space on the Time Track 
and taken their optional final action.
Distribution of prestige points: the Time Track is 
now used to show the players’ scores. The track is marked 
every 5 spaces in order to help with the scoring.
Add up the players’ prestige:
The player’s final position on the Time Track 
earns between 0 and 5 points.
Each Prestige token earns the player the value 
shown.
Territories : 
	
• Each “normal” territory is worth 1 point (a 
conquered settler does not earn any points).
	
• Each Atlantis territory is worth 2 points (a 
conquered settler does not earn any points).
Each discovery tile is worth 2 points.
Each Wonder is worth between 8 and 12 
points. The Poetry and Philosophy discoveries 
are worth 3 and 5 points respectively.
The Absolutism, City, Science and Engineer-
ing discoveries provide bonus points (see later).
Deduct 2 points from each player affected by the 
Keres Olympos card.
Each Destiny card in a player’s hand is worth 1 
point.
Note: resource cubes and Hourglass tokens do not 
provide any points.
The player with the most Prestige points wins 
the game. In the event of a tie, the player with the most 
discovery and Wonder tiles wins.
Variants
When playing with 3 or 5 players, the following changes 
are applied:
With 5 players:
Note: the 5-player game is longer and more difficult than the 
other variants. It is better to learn the game with the 3-player 
or the 4-player variant.
All the discovery tiles are used on the Development 
board: there are therefore three of each of the tiles with 
red and green backs. When a player develops a discovery 
on the first (red) or third (green) row, the third (grey) 
bonus is available for that discovery.
The player whose token is at the bottom of the starting 
pile eliminates 4 territories instead of 8, using one 
Territory token of each type to do this as in the 4-player 
The initial cube distribution is formed of one of each type 
plus a random cube: each player is given one at random.
With 3 players:
Remove the discovery tiles with a 4 or a 5 on the 
back: they will not be used during the game. Sort the re-
maining discovery tiles by type: there will be two of each 
of the yellow and blue tiles, and one of each of the red, 
green and purple tiles. When a player makes a discovery 
on the first or third row of the board (red or green backs), 
he may not choose the third (grey) bonus for that discov-
ery.
The player whose token is at the bottom of the starting 
pile eliminates 12 territories instead of 8, using 3 
Territory tokens of each type to do this as in the 4-player 
game. As in the 4-player game, at least one territory of 
each type marked with a star must be left available. 
At the beginning of the game, each player receives a dif-
ferent resource cube, drawn randomly.

Thanks 
Yves Dohogne, Yolande Elsen, Yann Vekemans, Xavier 
Houppertz, Vincent Piedboeuf, Valérie-Anne Delvaux, 
Thomas Provoost, Thomas Laroche, Stéphane Van Ees-
beeck, Stéphane Rimbert, Stavros Gessis, Nicolas Christian, 
Mulambo, Laurent Demilie, Johan Javaux, Jean-Pierre Er-
notte, Jean-Paul Reginster, Iris Fostiez, Fred Dieu, Eric Ha-
nuise, Dom Vandaële, Cédrick Caumont, Bernard Jorion, 
Benoît Kusters, Alexis Keyaerts Ystari team.
Development board: example tile set-up (4 players).

Discoveries
Medicine: adding a new sett-
ler to the board only costs 1 
point instead of 2.
Cavalry: the player gains 2 
Hourglasses. Contiguous land 
movement only costs 1 point, 
regardless of the number of 
spaces moved.
Oracle: when the player has 
to draw a Destiny card, he 
takes the top three, chooses 
one and discards the other 
two, face up on the discard 
pile.
Metallurgy, Hoplite, Phalanx, Strategy: these discoveries 
provide Swords for combat.
Note: the Phalanx also provides a Destiny card (the Oracle can be 
used to select the card). Strategy provides 2 Swords.
Religion, Polytheism, Hellenism, Art: these discoveries pro-
vide Zeus symbols for divine events.
Note: Hellenism also provides a Destiny card (the Oracle can be 
used to select the card). Art provides 2 Zeus symbols.
Astronomy, Map-making: 
movement onto a sea space costs 1 
action point less.
Note: the effects of these two cards 
are cumulative.
Money, Agriculture: the player spends 2 fewer action points when paying for dis-
coveries requiring the resource shown on the tile. The effects of these two cards are 
cumulative. The player can only benefit from the reduction if the resource is explicitly 
required for the discovery: they cannot therefore be used to pay for grey squares. Each 
Money and Agriculture tile provides a reduction for a different resource. The first 
player to acquire a given discovery may choose which of the two tiles to take.
Democracy: the player wins 
all ties (Olympos and Destiny 
cards, Swords).
Commerce: the player im-
mediately gains 2 resource 
cubes of his choice.
Poetry, Philosophy: these are worth 3 and 
5 bonus points respectively at the end of the 
game in addition to the 2 points earned for a 
discovery tile.
Surgery: the player takes 2 
settlers and adds them to his 
personal stock.
Architecture: the player gains 
1 Star and spends 2 fewer action 
points when building Wonders.
City: the player earns 1 point 
for each of his settlers on the 
board (including conquered 
settlers) at the end of the game.
Absolutism: 
the 
player 
earns 2 points for each Sword 
on his discovery tiles at the 
end of the game.
Science: the player scores 
1 point for each of his dis-
covery tiles at the end of 
the game.
Engineering: 
the 
player 
benefits from a Star and earns 
3 points for each of his Star 
tokens at the end of the game.