SETUP
Shuffle the 174 Unit Cards and place them face-down 
beside the play area
Place 40 coins beside the Unit Cards
Shuffle the 12 Reward Cards and deal them in 3 even 
face-down stacks in the middle of the play area to 
form the 3 Cities
Each player takes:
1 each of the 6 Feat Cards, placing them face-up in 
their play area
4 Unit Cards
4 Coins
The oldest player is First Player. Throughout these 
rules the player taking their turn is the Active Player, 
and their opponent is the Opposing Player.
OPTIONAL RULE: Omen comes with 50 unique 
units. If you want to ease into the game, only use the 
24 types of Unit Cards with a single circle printed on 
the bottom left corner of the card.
THE CARDS
There are 3 main types of cards in Omen: Reward 
Cards, Feat Cards, and Unit Cards.
REWARD CARDS
(Score 2 points in hand, or 1 point if played)
These 6 types of cards begin the game face down in 
three separate Cities and are added to your hand when 
you win battles during the War Step.
Reward Cards in your hand at the end of the game 
score 2 points. Alternatively, you can play them once 
for a special effect by putting them face down in your 
play area. Face-down Reward Cards score only 1 point 
at the end of the game.
NOTE: Some Reward Cards have 2 small circles in the 
right-hand corner. These are only used in Grand Melee 
games and should remain in the box during 2-player 
matches.
FEAT CARDS
(Score 2 points)
Each player begins with the same 6 Feat Cards and 
turns them face down when the conditions on the 
cards are fulfilled. Each face-down Feat Card is worth 
2 points at the end of the game.
UNIT CARDS
Soldiers, Beasts, and Oracles are purchased and 
played during the Surge Step to win Reward Cards 
and complete Feat Cards. They are discarded during 
the Offering Step to gain coins and cards. They do not 
score points by themselves.
UNIT VALUES
Each Unit Card has 3 values:
Cost (yellow) = Coins that must be spent to play the 
card.
Offering Value (blue) = Coins/cards gained by dis­
carding the card during the Offering Step.
Strength (red) = Strength contributed when War-
Torn Cities are resolved during the War Step.
UNIT ABILITIES
Units also have Ability text that activates differently 
depending on the type of card:
Soldiers are played on your side of a City, instantly 
activating their Ability. (This is mandatory unless 
the Ability text says “may.”)
Beasts may be played on your side of a City to con­
tribute their Strength (ignoring their Ability), or 
they may be discarded to activate their Ability.
Oracles are played on your side of a City, and their 
Abilities are triggered during the Portent Step in 
any order you choose.
IMPORTANT: Soldier Abilities are activated any time 
they move into a City. This includes when they are 
played into a City, and when another Ability moves 
them to a different City.
OMEN: REIGN OF WAR SECOND EDITION RULEBOOK

PLAYING OMEN
Players alternate taking turns until 2 City stacks are 
depleted, or 1 player achieves 5 of their 6 feats. Turns 
are divided into 6 separate Steps:
STEP 1: WEALTH
The Active Player receives 3 Wealth Actions. They may 
spend 1 Wealth Action to gain 1 coin or 1 Unit Card, 
in any combination. If a player uses all 3 Wealth Ac­
tions to obtain cards, they may draw 1 additional card. 
If they use all 3 Wealth Actions to obtain coins, they 
may obtain 1 additional coin.
NOTE: During the first turn, the Active Player receives 
only 2 Wealth Actions, but still receives the bonus 
resource if they select all cards or all coins.
OPTIONAL RULE: If the Active Player has no cards 
in their hand, or no coins, they gain 1 additional 
Wealth Action. If the Active Player has no cards in 
their hand and no coins, they gain 2 additional Wealth 
Actions.
STEP 2: SURGE
The Active Player spends coins to play Unit Cards from 
their hand. They may also use a Reward Card earned 
in a previous turn by placing it face-down in their play 
area and activating its special effect.
PLAY UNIT CARDS INTO CITIES
Choose a City, spend the number of coins equal to the 
Cost (yellow) on the Unit Card, and place the Unit 
Card on your side of the chosen City. If the Unit Card 
is a Soldier, use its Ability immediately (this is man­
datory unless the text says “may,” even if the soldier is 
moved from one city to another). If it is a Beast, ignore 
its Ability. If it is an Oracle, wait until the Portent Step 
to use its Ability.
The Active Player may play as many Unit Cards as they 
wish to (and can afford) but there cannot be more than 
5 units on their side of the City. This is called the City 
Limit.
IMPORTANT: Each Soldier and Oracle counts as 1 
unit toward the City Limit, but each Beast counts as 
2 units. Beasts also count as 2 units for all other game 
purposes.
DISCARD BEASTS
To trigger the Ability on a Beast Unit Card, pay its Cost 
(yellow) in coins, resolve the Ability, and discard it.
USE REWARDS
Once per Surge Step, the Active Player may use 1 
Reward Card earned on a previous turn by activating 
its Ability and placing the card face-down in their play 
area. Face-down Reward Cards score 1 point at the end 
of the game, while Reward Cards players haven’t used 
score 2 points.
STEP 3: PORTENT
Activate the Abilities on all Oracle cards on your side 
of each City, in any order you choose.
STEP 4: FEAT
Check Feat Cards to see if you have fulfilled their 
conditions, turning them face-down if you have. Each 
face-down card scores 2 points at the end of the game.
STEP 5: WAR
Resolve War-Torn Cities. A City is War-Torn if the 
Opposing Player has at least 3 units on their side of the 
City, or if there are 5 or more units total on both sides 
of a City. (Don’t forget that Beasts count as 2 units.)
If a City is War-Torn, players add together the Strength 
(red) of all Unit Cards on their side of the City. The 
player with the higher combined Strength takes the top 
Reward Card in that City stack, adds it to their hand, 
and discards all but 1 of their units from that City. The 
losing player discards all but 2 of their units from that 
City. (Again, don’t forget that Beasts count as 2 units, 
so winning players may never leave a Beast in a City.) 
The player with the most Soldiers wins ties. If there 
is still a tie both players discard down to 2 units and 
nobody wins a Reward Card.
If no Reward Cards remain in a City players may still 
place units there, but it is never considered War-Torn.
STEP 6: OFFERING
The Active Player may discard 1 (and only 1) Unit 
Card and draw any combination of Unit Cards and 
coins equal to the Offering Value (blue).

ENDING THE GAME
The game ends if 2 Cities are depleted of Reward 
Cards, or at the end of the Active Player’s turn if the 
Opposing Player has 5 face-down Feat Cards.
SCORING
Scoring is as follows:
2 points for each face-down Feat Card in your play 
area
2 points for each Reward Card in your hand
1 point for each face-down Reward Card in your 
play area
If there is a tie, the player with the most face-down 
Feat Cards wins.
ADDITIONAL RULES
ENRAGED
Enraged is a status effect triggered by many Unit Abili­
ties. Only Soldiers and Oracles may be Enraged.
When this happens, flip the unit face down. It becomes 
a Beast with a Strength (red) of 4 and loses all other 
abilities. All of the Active Player’s Enraged units are 
flipped face up at the end of the Offering Step. Units 
may not be Enraged if doing so would cause them to 
exceed the City Limit of 5 units (Beasts count as 2).
DRAWING
Any cards revealed from the deck that are not added to 
a player’s hand or to a City are discarded.
If a player needs to draw a Unit Card and there are 
none left in the deck, the player shuffles their discard 
pile to form a new deck.
REVEALING HANDS AND DISCARDING
If an Ability requires a player to reveal their hand or 
discard a card, they do not have to reveal or discard 
Reward Cards. These abilities apply only to Unit Cards.
TRICKY RULES TO REMEMBER
The Start Player gets only 2 Wealth Actions during 
their first turn, but still gets the bonus if they spend 
all those actions on one resource.
Beasts always count as 2 units.
No player may play more than 5 units on their side of 
any City.
Revealed cards are discarded unless card text says 
otherwise.
Placing revealed cards in your hand or returning a 
card from the discard pile to your hand does not 
count as drawing.
The discard pile is public and anyone can look at it at 
any time.
If there are no Unit Cards left, shuffle the discard pile 
to create a new deck.
A player can never force another player to reveal or 
discard a Reward Card.
The Active Player can play units into multiple Cities 
during their turn.
If a City has no Reward Cards remaining units can still 
be played there, but the City is never War-Torn.
The Active Player may only play 1 Reward Card per 
turn.
A City can be War-Torn even if the Opposing Player 
has no units on their side of the City.
TURN SEQUENCE SUMMARY
1.	Wealth (spend 3 Wealth Actions on any combi­
nation of Unit Cards or coins. Receive 1 bonus 
card if you spend all these actions on cards, and 
1 bonus coin if you spend all these actions on 
coins)
2.	Surge (play Units into Cities by paying their Cost 
(yellow) and/or use 1 Reward Card)
3.	Portent (activate Oracle Abilities in any order)
4.	Feat (flip completed Feat Cards face down)
5.	War (resolve War-Torn Cities using Strength 
(red) and collect Reward Cards)
6.	Offering (discard 1 card for any combination of 
cards/coins equal to its Offering Value (blue))

EMISSARY OF WAR START PLAYER VARIANT
Set up the game normally. Each player selects 1 Unit 
Card from their hand and places it face down. This is 
the Emissary. Once each player has played an Emis­
sary, all Emissaries are revealed.
Add your Emissary’s Cost (yellow), Offering (blue), 
and Strength (red) values. The player controlling the 
Emissary with the highest total becomes First Player. If 
there is a tie the player controlling the Emissary with 
the highest Strength (red) becomes First Player. If there 
is still a tie the oldest player becomes First Player.
The First Player then discards their Emissary, while 
their opponent returns their Emissary to their hand.
TEST OF SKILL DUPLICATE DECK VARIANT
Each player receives a deck of 50 cards that includes 
1 copy of each unit in the game. This deck is shuffled, 
and the game is played normally except each player has 
their own deck and discard pile.
CARD DRAFTING VARIANT
Each player takes 10 coins. Divide the Unit Cards into 
50 face-up stacks, with each stack containing all copies 
of 1 Unit Card.
The youngest player places 1 coin into the middle of 
the play area and takes 1 stack of cards. The other play­
er does the same, and this continues until each player 
has taken ten stacks of cards.
IMPORTANT: Players may not draft more than 6 Sol­
dier stacks, more than 4 Beast stacks, or more than 4 
Oracle stacks. Undrafted cards are returned to the box.
Each player shuffles his drafted cards, and the game is 
played normally except each player has their own deck 
and discard pile.
DECK BUILDING VARIANT
If each player has access to their own set of Unit Cards, 
they may build their own deck using the limitations 
and rules established in the Card Drafting Variant.
4-PLAYER GRAND MELEE VARIANT
Set up two separate play areas as normal. Shuffle the 
4 Match/Victory cards and give 1 to each player, who 
keeps the number on their card hidden.
Each game is played according to the rules in the Card 
Drafting Variant. After the draft, players reveal their 
Match Card Numbers, set the cards aside, and players 
with matching numbers become opponents.
The winner of each game takes a Victory Card and 
they play each other while the losers play each other. 
The player with 2 Victory Cards after this game wins 
the Grand Melee.
The two players with 1 Victory Card may play each 
other for second place.
SIMPLIFIED CARD DRAFTING VARIANT
Shuffle the Unit Cards and deal 10 to each player.
Each player chooses 1 card, places it face down in 
front of them, and passes the remaining cards to the 
player on their left. Players continue this until all cards 
are face down, and repeat this process until they have 
drafted 30 cards.
Each player shuffles their drafted cards, and the game 
is played normally except each player has their own 
deck and discard pile.
This variant can be used with both 2 and 4 players.
VARIANTS & ALTERNATE RULES