RULEBOOK
Following the success of robotic rover missions, the United 
Nations established the Department of Operations and Mars 
Exploration (DOME). The first settlers arrived on Mars in the year 
2037. In the decades after the Mars Base Camp was established, 
private exploration companies started working towards the 
creation of a self-sustaining colony.
As a chief astronaut from one of these enterprises, you want 
to be a pioneer in developing the biggest, most advanced colony 
on Mars by achieving both DOME mission goals as well as your 
company’s private agenda.
In the beginning, you are very dependent on supplies from 
Earth, and have to travel a lot between the Mars Space Station 
and the surface of the planet. As the colony expands over time, 
you will construct mines, power generators, water extractors, 
greenhouses, oxygen condensers, and shelters. The aim is to 
become a self-sufficient colony, independent of any terrestrial 
organization. This will require carefully balancing the importance 
of water, air, power, and food — the things we need to survive.
Do you dare take part in humankind’s biggest challenge?

Game Overview 	
	
Game Components	
	
	
Game Setup 	
Player Setup 	
	
	
Minerals 	
	
	
	
	
Important Terms	
	
	
Gameplay 	
	
	
MAIN BOARD ACTIONS 	
Teal Colonist 	
	
Crystal 	
	
Red Colonist 	
Orbital Station Main Actions 	
Landing Pod 	
Obtain Blueprint 	
Learn new Technology 	
Research and Development (R&D) 	
	
Using Tech tiles 	
Resupply 	
Colony Main Actions 	
Control Center 	
	
Bots 	
	
Rover 	 	
Construct a Building 	
	
LSS Buildings 	
	
Progress area 	
	
Displacement rule 	
Using Technology to Construct 14
	
Mines 	
Life Support System (LSS) 	
Colony Status Update 	
Upgrade a Building 	
Welcome a Ship 	
Hire a Scientist or Take an Earth Contract 17
	
Earth Contracts 	
Mars Crystals 	
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS 	
Boosting Tech with Colonists 	
Scientists and Advanced Buildings 	
Missions 	
Private Goals 	
Travel to the Colony 	
Travel to Orbit 	
End of the Game 	
Solo game 	
2-player game 	
First Colonists variant 	
Space Oddity variant 	
Credits 	
The game is played over several rounds, each 
consisting of two phases: The COLONIZATION 
PHASE and the SHUTTLE PHASE.
During the COLONIZATION PHASE, each player 
takes a turn, during which they take actions. 
The actions a player is able to take depends 
on the side of the board they are on. If players 
are on the Space Station in orbit, they can take 
blueprints, buy and develop technologies, and 
take supplies from the warehouse. If players are 
at the colony on the surface of the planet, they 
can construct buildings with their bots, upgrade 
these buildings using blueprints, hire scientists 
and take new contracts, welcome new ships, and 
explore the planet’s surface with their rover. 
In the SHUTTLE PHASE, players may travel 
between the colony and the space station in orbit.
All buildings on Mars have a dependency on each 
other and some are required for the colony to 
grow. Building shelters for colonists to live in 
requires oxygen, generating oxygen requires 
plants, growing plants requires water, extracting 
water from ice requires power, generating power 
requires mining minerals, and mining minerals 
requires colonists. 
Upgrading the colony’s ability to provide each 
of these resources is vital. As the colony grows, 
more shelters are needed so that the colonists 
can survive the inhospitable conditions on Mars.
During the game, players are trying to complete 
missions. Once a total of three missions have 
been completed, the game ends.
To win the game, players must contribute the 
most to the development of the first colony on 
Mars. This is represented during the game by 
players gaining Opportunity Points (OP). The 
player with the most OP at the end of the game 
is declared the winner.
GAME OVERVIEW
TABLE OF CONTENTS

GAME COMPONENTS
1 Main board
1 Building tiles display
8 LSS Reward tiles
48 Colonists,
12 in each player color
24 Blueprint cards
All game components are limited except Resources and Crystals. If you run out of either of them during the game, please use a substitute.
4 Player boards 
20 Resource tiles of each type 
and 30 Crystals
1 Shuttle and 
1 Colony level marker 
4 Rovers,
1 in each player color
6 Scientist cards
1 Reference book and
4 Player aids
8 Research tiles and 
19 Discovery tiles
20 Shelter Building tiles,
5 in each player color
20 Ships and 20 Progress 
cubes, 5 in each player color
12 Earth Contract cards
12 First Colonist cards and	
 
6 First Colonist tiles 
16 Tech tiles and 
4 Shelter Tech tiles
4 Player markers and 4 OP 
markers, 1 in each player color
16 Private Goal cards
5 Starting Building tiles
3 Mission tracker cubes and
1 Remaining Missions marker
16 Bots, 4 in each player color
6 Scientist markers 
9 Mission cards
30 Building tiles
12 Solo cards
4 LSS Track markers
1 Scientists and Earth 
Contracts Board
3 Mission markers
32 Advanced Building markers, 
8 in each player color

GAME SETUP
Place the game board in the middle of the table. 
The board is divided into two sections. The left 
side of the board represents the Mars Space 
Station in orbit above Mars [Orbit]. The rest of 
the board represents the Colony on the planet’s 
surface [Colony].
ORBIT SIDE
1.	
Shuffle the Discovery tiles and 
place them face down in a stack 
beside the board. Turn the top 2 
tiles face up and place them on 
the Exploration space.
2.	 Place 3 of each of the following in the 
Warehouse spaces, one per space: Crystals, 
Batteries, Water, Plants, and Oxygen. 
Note: In a 2-player game: Place only 2 of each.
3.	 Take the Tech tiles and set 
aside those that depict a 
Shelter (one in each player 
color). 
Separate the rest into two 
sets based on the color 
on the back. Shuffle one set and 
place them at random face up on each of 
the spaces in the Tech Grid. Shuffle the 
8 remaining Tech tiles (not including the 
Shelters) and place them face down in two 
stacks next to the Tech Grid. 
Note: 2-player game: Use only 1 set of tiles. 
Remove the 2nd set from the game.
4.	 Separate the Blueprint cards into two decks 
based on their backs: Level 1 and Level 3, 
shuffle each deck separately and place them 
face down near the board with the Level 1 
cards stacked on top of the Level 3 cards. 
Take the top 6 cards from the deck and place 
them face up in a display along the side of 
the board.
COLONY SIDE
5.	 Place the Scientist display next to the main 
board. Place the 6 Scientist cards in the 
spaces on the board in the following order 
from left to right: Geologist, R&D Engineer, 
Hydrologist, Biochemist, Geochemist, and 
Systems Engineer. Place the cards on the top 
part of each space, covering the Crystal icon 
and leaving the bottom section of each space 
(showing the cost) visible. Then place each 
Scientist marker on its matching card. 
6.	 Place the Earth Contract cards face down in 
a deck on the Scientist display. There is no 
need to shuffle them.
The main board 
represents a 
computer display 
where the 
colonization of 
the planet can 
be monitored in 
real time from 
satellites in orbit.
4 PLAYER SETUP

7.	 Take the starting Mine (the one with an S on 
the back) and place it in the indicated space 
in the center of the board.
8.	 Take the remaining starting Buildings (with 
an S on the back) and place them at random 
on the indicated hexes of the board, as per 
the setup image. Ensure that the orientation 
of the tiles is the same (the notch should be 
facing the bottom of the board). 	
	
Note: the Shelters will be placed during 
player setup.
9.	 Place the Building display board near the 
Scientist cards. Separate the rest of the 
Buildings by type into stacks. Shuffle each 
stack separately and place them with the 
image of the building face down on the 
corresponding spaces.
10.	Take the Research tiles and separate them 
by type (color and letter). Place them on the 
indicated hexes of the map (keeping all of one 
type together in the same corner of the map). 
11.	 Take the Mission cards and divide them 
into two decks based on their type: Short 
and Long. Shuffle each deck separately and 
choose 2 Short and 1 Long at random (for the 
short game) or 1 Short and 2 Long (for the 
long game). 
Note: for your first game, it is recommended to 
use the First Colonists variant (see page 24). 
Place the Mission cards face up on the 
indicated spaces on the board. For each 
Mission, take the Mission marker for that 
space and place it near the action relating to 
the Mission card.
12.	For each Mission card, place a Mission 
tracker cube near the Mission card, on the 
appropriate space according to the number 
of players in the game.
13.	Place the Remaining Missions marker on 
space 3 of the Missions track.
14.	Place all Crystals and Resources next to the 
board to make a general supply. 
LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM (LSS)
15.	Place the Colony level marker on the left side 
of the second row.
16.	Place the LSS Track markers on the 
appropriate spaces of the bottom row.
17.	 Shuffle the LSS Reward tiles and 
place 4 of them at random face up 
on the top spaces. Return the rest 
to the box, they will not be needed 
for this game.
Mission cards chosen for a Short game. 2 Short and 1 Long.

PLAYER SETUP
PLAYER BOARD
Each player chooses a color and takes the following:
1.	
1 Player board.
2.	 1 Player marker.
3.	 1 OP marker, placed on the 0 space of the OP 
track.
4.	 1 Resource of each of the 5 types, placed on 
the matching spaces of your Storage (A).
5.	 1 Crystal, placed in the Depot (E).
6.	 1 Shelter Tech tile (set-aside earlier), placed 
on the middle space of the 2nd column in 
your Laboratory (B).
7.	 5 Ships, placed on the top 5 Depot spaces.
8.	 5 Shelter Buildings, 4 placed in their 
positions on the right side of your Player 
board, and 1 placed building-side up in one of 
the Shelter starting positions according to 
the number of players (as per the images to 
the right and in the indicated hexes on the 
main board). Shelters should be placed in a 
position nearest to their respective players 
for convenience.
9.	 4 Bots. 3 are placed beside your Player board, 
and 1 on your Shelter on the main board.
10.	8 Advanced Building markers, placed beside 
your Player board.
11.	 12 Colonists. 3 are placed in the Living 
Quarters and the remaining 9 are placed 
beside the Player board.
12.	1 Rover, placed beside your Player board.
13.	5 Progress cubes, 1 placed below each of the 
Resources.
14.	3 Private Goal cards: Shuffle the Private Goal 
cards and deal each player 3 of them face 
down. Players should look at their own cards 
but keep them secret from the other players. 
Place the rest back in the box.
Your Player board represents a display of your main 
Shelter, and it is divided into different sections:
A. STORAGE Your Resources will be stored here. 
There are five different Resources in the game: 
Minerals, Batteries, Water, Plants, and Oxygen. The 
number of Resources of each type you can store on 
your Player board is equal to the number of Shelter 
tiles you have on the map plus one. (e.g. if you have 
one Shelter, you can store two of each Resource). 
The order in which each Resource appears on 
your board is very important. A Resource to the 
left of an arrow is needed to build the Building of 
the type to the right of the arrow. For example, 
you need power (the Battery Resource) to build a 
Water Extractor, then you need Water to build a 
Greenhouse, and so on.
B. LABORATORY 
Here is where you will place 
and develop technologies you 
research.
C. LIVING QUARTERS
Your Colonists will go here. 
At the beginning of the 
game, you have space for 4 
Colonists, and 3 of the slots 
are occupied. 2 more slots 
become available for each 
additional Shelter you build.
D. WORKING AREA
Colonists can be sent here to 
boost some of the actions you 
take. There is no limit to the 
number of Colonists you can 
have in your Working Area.
E. DEPOT
There are 8 spaces in your Depot 
for storing Crystals. At the 
beginning of the game, however, 
you only have 3 slots available as 
your Ships are taking 5 of the slots.
F. HANGAR
Your Private Ships are moved from 
your Depot to here during the game.
A
C
E
F
D
B
4 players 	
3 players 	
2 players 	

IMPORTANT TERMS
•	 Whenever you gain something during the 
game, it is taken from the general supply. 
Only take it from the Warehouse on the 
Main board if specifically told to do so 
and the Warehouse icon is depicted.
•	 Resources are placed in your Storage (up to 
your limit). 
•	 Colonists are placed in your Living Quarters 
(if there is an available slot). The capacity 
of your Living Quarters is 4, plus 2 for each 
additional Shelter you have constructed. Any 
Colonists that would be placed in the Living 
Quarters when there is not enough space, are 
placed next to your Player board instead.
•	 Any Crystals gained are placed in the space 
below your Depot; you cannot spend them 
on the turn you gain them. At the beginning 
of your next turn, move these Crystals to 
your Depot. If there is not enough space, 
place any excess back in the supply.
•	 Whenever you must pay a cost of something 
(Resource or Crystal), remove it from your 
Player board and place it back in the general 
supply.
•	 A group of connected Buildings of the same 
type is known as a Building Complex. The 
number of Buildings within the Complex 
indicates its size. A single Building not 
connected to another one of the same type is 
not a Complex.
•	 Anything that is done in Turn Order means 
that you follow the order of the Player markers 
on the Turn Order spaces, starting with 1 and 
ending with 8.
•	 An empty hex is a hex on the board with 
nothing in it at all.
•	 No hex may contain more than one piece 
at the end of any player’s turn. (Pieces are 
Bots, Rovers, Colonists, or Advanced Building 
markers.)
The player who has seen the film “The Martian” 
the most times is the first player. 
 
In clockwise order, starting 
with the first player, each 
player places their Player 
marker in any empty Turn 
Order space (1-8) and may 
immediately receive the 
benefit of that space (see 
page 2 of the Reference book).
The player whose Player marker is on the 
highest numbered Turn Order space places the 
Shuttle on one of the Red Travel spaces (with 
a number 1 in it), either on the Colony or Orbit 
side (their choice).
Possible starting spaces for the Shuttle.
Minerals
Minerals are a much needed Resource on the surface of Mars. They are 
used for a variety of things, and can also be used instead of any other 
Resource (not Crystals). The exception to this is completing an Earth 
Contract (see page 3 of the Reference book).
Blue decided the Shuttle would start on the 
Orbit Side.
A GREENHOUSE BUILDING COMPLEX
Note: The Generator is not a Complex as it is a standalone 
Building.
GAINING CRYSTALS
Gained Crystals are initially placed below your Depot and 
are only moved into your Depot at the start of your turn.
Example of placing the Shuttle:
An empty hex.

GAMEPLAY
MAIN BOARD ACTIONS
Each round is divided into two phases:
COLONIZATION PHASE: 
In turn order, each player takes a turn during 
which they perform 1 Main action and optionally 1 
Executive action.
SHUTTLE PHASE: 
The Shuttle either travels between Orbit and the 
Colony, or it moves closer to traveling.
In this phase, all players take one turn. The order 
in which players take turns is determined by the 
order of the Player markers on the Turn Order 
spaces, starting with the leftmost space on the 
Orbit side (1) and proceeding right, ending at the 
rightmost space on the Colony side (8). 
On your turn, you must perform one Main action. 
You may also perform one Executive action 
either before or after your Main action. Executive 
actions are described on page 18.
If you contribute to any of the Mission cards, you 
gain 1 or 2 Crystals as depicted on the card. See 
page 19 for more details of the Mission cards.
When your turn is complete, lay your Player 
marker down as a reminder that you’ve finished 
your turn. The next player then takes their turn.
There are a number of different Main actions 
you can take on the Main board. If your Player 
marker is on the Orbit side of the board, only 
the Orbital Station actions are available to you. 
Similarly, if your Player marker is on the Colony 
side of the board, only the Colony actions are 
available to you.
Some of the actions depict a Red Colonist icon 
and/or a Teal Colonist icon, and/or a Crystal.
TEAL COLONIST:
This icon can be found at the bottom 
of some of the action icons and 
indicates that one or more Colonists 
may be moved to your Working Area 
to boost the power of the action. Any Colonists 
in your Working Area are returned to your Living 
Quarters at the end of the round if you travel. 
See the individual actions for full details on this.
CRYSTAL: 
If this icon is printed at the bottom 
of the action, it means the action 
can be boosted by spending 
Crystals. See the individual actions for full 
details on how the action is boosted.
Order of Play:
In the picture below, the order of play would be: Purple, Green, Yellow, and Blue.
Example of Teal Colonist action:
Blue chooses the Resupply action and 
chooses to take 1 Water. He then boosts 
the action by sending two Colonists to his 
Working Area to allow him to take 1 more 
Water and 1 Crystal too.

ORBITAL STATION MAIN ACTIONS
This action allows you to travel to the Colony. 
Follow the rules as described on page 20 for the 
Shuttle Phase but skip step 1 (placing a Discovery 
tile). After you have chosen a Turn Order space 
on the Colony side, lay your Player marker down 
to indicate that you have already taken your turn 
this round. If the Shuttle travels from Mars to 
Orbit this round, you may travel with it as normal. 
Note: This action may seem unusual at first. The 
use of this action will become clear once you 
have played a few rounds.
LANDING POD:
Landings using the pod are slow, painful, expensive, and lonely, but sometimes your best option. Proceed at your own risk!
RED COLONIST:
This icon can be found at the top 
of some action icons and indicates 
that in order to perform the 
action, you must place one of your 
Colonists from your Living Quarters 
onto one of the Action slots.
If there are currently no Colonists of other 
players on the Action slots for this action, 
there is no additional cost to take the action. 
Otherwise, for each other player color of 
Colonists already present, you must either pay 
1 Crystal or move a Colonist from your Living 
Quarters to your Working Area. The number of 
Colonists of each color does not matter, only 
the number of different colors present. If two or 
more other colors of Colonists are present, you 
can combine paying Crystals and/or Colonists.
2-player game: The additional cost to take the 
action is 1 Crystal / Colonist for each Colonist 
(both yours and your opponent’s) already on 
Action slots. 
Actions without this icon mean that you may 
take the action without placing a Colonist. 
Simply declare that you are taking the action 
and then resolve it.
Examples of placement:
It is Purple’s turn, and he wants to take 
the Obtain Blueprint action. Two of the 
Action slots are currently occupied 
(1 Blue and 1 Yellow), so Purple must 
pay a total of 2 of any combination of 
Crystals or Colonists moved from their 
Living Quarters to their Working Area. 
He decides to pay 1 Crystal and move 1 
Colonist to his Working Area. He could 
pay 2 Crystals or move 2 Colonists to his 
Working Area instead.
If all Action slots are filled, before you 
take the action, remove all Colonists of the 
player or players with the most Colonists 
on those Action slots (which could be your 
own). Place the Colonists in their respective 
player’s Working Area. Then pay any cost 
based on the Colonists still there.
It is Blue’s turn, and he wants to take the 
Construct a Building action. All the Action 
slots are currently full (1 Blue, 1 Purple, 
and 1 Yellow). Since it is a tie for the most, 
all of the Colonists there are moved back 
to their respective players’ Working Areas. 
There are now no Colonists on the action, 
so Blue does not have to pay anything to 
take the action.
It is Green’s turn, and she wants to take the 
Upgrade a Building action. All the Action 
slots are currently full (2 Purple and 1 
Green), so Purple’s Colonists (the player 
with the most) are moved back to their 
Working Area. The only Colonist left is 
Green, so there is no additional cost to take 
the action.

Take 1 Tech tile from the Tech Grid and place it 
on an empty space of the leftmost column in your 
Laboratory. If both of these spaces already have 
a tile on them, you may not take this action.
The cost to take a tile depends on its position 
in the Tech Grid. Taking a tile from one of the 
bottom spaces is free, taking a tile from one of 
the middle spaces costs 1 Battery, and taking 
a tile from one of the top three spaces costs 1 
Battery and 1 Resource of your choice. Tech tiles 
are not refilled until the Colony level increases 
(see page 16).
After placing the tile in your Laboratory, you 
may immediately gain the benefit shown by 
the graphic printed on that space. Some of 
these benefits also show a Teal Colonist icon, 
meaning that the action can be boosted by using 
additional Colonists as normal. See the Reference 
book for an explanation of these graphics.
Boosted action: You may move a Colonist to your 
Working area when performing this action to take 
a second Tech Tile following the same rules as 
above.
Note: Each player may only have 1 Tech tile of 
each type.
LEARN NEW TECHNOLOGY: 
Technology tiles allow you to perform or enhance certain actions. The more developed 
they are, the more powerful they become. Tech tiles are also worth points at the end of 
the game.
Example: Learning new Technology
Purple chooses to learn a new technology. 
He chooses the Water technology, paying 1 
Battery as it is in the middle row of the Tech 
Grid. He chooses to place it on the bottom 
space of column 1 in his Laboratory and gains 
the benefit of that space (gaining a Crystal).
Cost of Upgrade
Level of Blueprint (1 or 3)
- this card is level 3
Opportunity Points
Gained when taking this card
Also indicates the type of Building 
that can be upgraded.
Executive action
Cost to use Executive action
Example of Obtaining a Blueprint:
Yellow wants a Blueprint. Because Purple 
already has a Colonist there, this costs 
her either 1 Crystal, or she must move one 
Colonist from her Living Quarters into her 
Working Area. 
She chooses to 
move a Colonist.
She takes the Metal Deposit Blueprint 
from the display and places one of her 
Advanced Building markers on it. 
She then gains 1 
Mineral which is 
placed in her Storage.
Because the action can be boosted, she 
could choose to send her remaining 
Colonist to her Working Area to take an 
additional Blueprint.
ECO RESORT
This action allows you to take 1 Blueprint card 
from the ones available in the display. These 
Blueprints are required for upgrading Buildings 
(see page 16) which will provide new Executive 
actions. Place the card face up next to your 
Player board and gain the Resource or Crystal 
depicted in the bottom right of the card. 
Finally, place one of your unused Advanced 
Building markers on the card. If you do not 
have any Advanced Building markers remaining, 
you cannot take the Blueprint. Do not draw a 
replacement card.
Note: As long as the Advanced Building marker 
is on the card, the depicted action cannot be 
used. The marker is removed when you upgrade a 
Building using the Blueprint.
Boosted action: For each Colonist you move to 
your Working Area when taking this action, you 
can take an additional Blueprint, following the 
same rules as above.
OBTAIN BLUEPRINT: 
Earth sends blueprints to improve the buildings and making them more effective. 
More blueprints become available when the Colony grows in size and more funding 
becomes available.

This action allows you to develop Tech tiles on 
your Player board by moving them to the right. 
You may develop 1 Tech tile twice or 2 Tech tiles 
once each. If you develop only 1 tile twice, treat 
each of the movements separately.
To develop a Tech tile, move it to an adjacent 
empty space to the right of the tile’s current 
position and pay the cost depicted above the 
column to which the tile is moving.
If you move a Tech tile to a space with a graphic 
on it, you may immediately gain the benefit of 
that space (see Reference book).
 
Note: If a development provides you with 
Resources, you can use those Resources to pay 
for another development.
Note: The number above each column is the 
technology level of each tile in that column. At 
the end of the game, each of your Tech tiles is 
worth OP depicted below the column.
 
develop any 1 Tech tile in your Laboratory once. 
You may develop the same tile multiple times in 
this way, and you may develop a tile even if you 
didn’t develop it with the Main action.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D): 
All technological developments are carried out on the Space Station orbiting Mars. 
These technologies will be put into good use on the surface of the planet.
USING TECH TILES:
At various times in the game, 
such as when performing an 
action or gaining a benefit, 
if there is a related Tech tile 
(with a matching icon) owned by any player, the 
effect of that action / benefit can be made more 
powerful. The greater the level of the Tech tile, 
the more powerful the effect.
Each time you use Tech, you may use any one 
Tech tile, belonging to you or another player.
If you use another player’s Tech tile, that player 
takes 1 Oxygen from the general supply and 
places it at the top of their Player board. 
At the end of your turn, that player has the 
option to immediately develop the Tech tile 
that was used, at no cost (including getting the 
benefit of a space they move the tile to). If they 
do, the Oxygen taken earlier is placed back to 
the general supply. If they cannot or 
do not wish to develop the Tech tile, 
they gain the Oxygen. 
Example: Developing a Technology
Green chooses this action and places a 
Colonist on an Action slot. Since there 
were no other Colonists on Action slots 
currently, there is no additional cost 
to take this action. For her initial two 
developments, she first develops the Water 
Tech tile to level 3 (costing 1 Oxygen), 
moving it to the space depicting a Mineral 
and gaining 1 Mineral.
She would like to develop it more, but the 
two adjacent spaces are currently occupied, 
so instead she develops her Generator Tech 
tile to level 5 by paying the Mineral that 
she just gained (in place of the Oxygen) 
and a Plant. She moves the tile to the space 
depicting a Blueprint and uses the benefit 
of that space to obtain 1 or more Blueprints. 
Finally, she may choose to send additional 
Colonists to her Working Area to develop 
more, as long as she has the Resources to 
do so.
Example of Resupply:
Green chooses the Resupply action which 
allows her to take 1 Resource or 1 Crystal. 
However, she boosts 
the action by sending 
two Colonists to 
her Working Area to 
allow her to take 2 
additional items from 
the Warehouse.
She decides to take 2 Crystals and 1 Water. 
Note that because she only has 1 Shelter 
on the board, her current storage limit on 
Resources is 2.
This action allows you to take any 1 Resource or 1 
Crystal from the Warehouse and place it in your 
Storage/Depot. 
take 1 additional Crystal or Resource from the 
Warehouse.
Reminder: You have limited capacity for storing 
Crystals (the number of empty spaces in your 
Depot) and Resources (equal to the number of 
Shelters you have, plus one).
Note: You cannot take something from the 
Warehouse if you do not have the capacity to 
store it.
RESUPPLY: 
Resources from Earth are in short supply and there is limited space in the warehouse. 
More resources will arrive as the colony grows.

COLONY MAIN ACTIONS
This action allows you to move your Bots and 
your Rover. You have 2 Movement points to use 
for moving your Bots and 2 Movement points to 
use for moving your Rover. You can do this in any 
order. You could move one Bot 1 hex, then your 
Rover, then another Bot (or even the same one). 
Each Movement point allows you to move the 	
Bot / Rover to an adjacent hex. 
Each Crystal you have in your Depot prior 
to taking this action may be spent to gain 1 
additional Movement point for either your Bots 
or your Rover.
Note: Bots and Rovers can pass through, but not 
end the turn on, a hex containing an Advanced 
Building, Colonist, another Bot, or another Rover.
BOTS: Bots are cleaners and 
builders. If a Bot ends its turn in a 
hex with a Discovery or Research tile, 
the tile is destroyed and removed 
from the game. If a Bot ends the turn 
in a hex with a Crystal, return the 
Crystal back to the general supply. 
The hex the Bot is in 
and all adjacent hexes 
are classed as that 
Bot’s Building Zone. 
This is relevant for 
constructing and 
upgrading Buildings 
(pages 13 and 16).
ROVER: Rovers travel around 
the map collecting Crystals by 
simply passing over them, or 
Discovery tiles and Research tiles 
if they end the turn on them.
At the start of the game, although the piece 
representing your Rover is next to your Player 
board, your Rover is actually at the starting Mine 
in the center of the board. When you move your 
Rover for the first time in the game, first place 
your Rover on the starting Mine and then count 
hexes from there.
You can also use a Rover Tech tile to gain 
additional Movement points equal to the level of 
the Tech tile.
You may collect any Crystals on hexes you pass 
through or land on. Take them from the board 
and place them in the space below your Depot as 
if you had gained them (you cannot spend them 
this turn).
After you have performed all your movement, if 
there is a Discovery or Research tile on the hex 
where your Rover is, you may remove that tile 
from the board to gain the benefit as long as you 
meet the following conditions:
•	 You must not have already taken a Research 
tile of that color and letter.
•	 You must pay any cost associated with the 
benefit.
•	 You must be able to take at least some of the 
benefit. If you cannot, your Rover cannot end 
its movement on that hex.
If you gain a tile, resolve it immediately by 
paying any associated cost, then place it in 
your play area (put Discovery tiles face down). 
Discovery and Research tiles may be needed to 
complete a Mission or a Private Goal.
See the Reference book for a detailed list of the 
Discovery and Research tiles.
 
CONTROL CENTER: 
The first robotic rover that successfully landed on Mars was Sojourner in July of 
1997. Later, the Spirit and Opportunity Rovers landed on Mars in January 2004. 
Curiosity landed in 2012 and is still operating. Rovers are responsible for most of 
the information and data we have gathered from the surface of the planet.
USING ROVER TECHNOLOGY
When moving your Rover, you can 
increase its range by using the 
related Tech tile (see page 11 for 
the full rules on using Tech tiles).
Example: 
If you use a level-3 Rover Tech tile, you add 
3 more Movement points for a total of 5.
A Rover moves 5 hexes, collecting a 
Crystal on the way and then claiming the 
Discovery tile.

CONSTRUCT A BUILDING: 
Construction of critical Buildings is essential to the development of the Colony and 
the arrival of new ships, welcoming more colonists to the planet. Production levels of 
power, water, food, and oxygen must be increased to sustain the necessary conditions 
for the self-sufficiency of the inhabitants on Mars. Companies that contribute to these 
improvements will be rewarded with resources and recognition.
This action allows you to add a new Building on 
Mars. You can either place a Building:
a.	Adjacent to an existing Building of the same 
type (creating a Complex - this requires the 
use of a Tech tile), or
b.	Exactly 2 hexes away from an existing Building 
of the same type (and not adjacent to another 
existing Building of the same type).
Note: Your Shelters and your opponents’ 
Shelters are considered to be Buildings of 
different types.
Follow these steps:
1.	 Choose which Building you want to construct. 
This can be one of the tiles next to the board 
(Mine, Generator, Water Extractor, Greenhouse, 
Oxygen Condenser) or the Shelter in the 
lowest position on your Player board.
2.	Pay the cost as shown on the Building display 
board. For Mines, see the bullet points below. 
For Shelters, the cost is 1 Oxygen (printed on 
the Shelter tiles).
3.	Place the new tile face down (in the same 
orientation as other already-placed tiles) on a 
hex that currently does not contain a Building 
and is within the Building zone of one of your 
Bots (on the Bot’s hex, or adjacent to the Bot).
•	 If you placed a Building adjacent to one or 
more Buildings of the same type (creating 
or increasing the size of a Complex), you 
must use a Tech tile of the related type and 
level (see page 14).
•	 If you placed a tile exactly 2 hexes away 
from a Building of the same type, no Tech 
tile is needed. This does not count as 
creating a Complex.
4.	If the Building tile you placed has 
arrows on it, place 1 Crystal from 
the general supply in each adjacent 
empty hex that the arrows are 
pointing to. Then, flip the tile face up, 
ensuring the correct orientation is maintained.
5.	Gain a number of Resources matching the 
type of Building equal to the new size of the 
Complex (i.e. the number of contiguous hexes 
consisting of tiles matching the tile you just 
placed). If the Building you placed is not 
adjacent to any other Buildings of the same 
type, gain 1 Resource.
If you placed a Shelter, gain Crystals instead 
of Resources.
The following rules also apply when Constructing:
•	 The first time in the game 
that you create or increase 
the size of a Complex, move 
your Progress cube from 
the bottom of your Player 
board for the corresponding 
Building and place it on the 
slot of your color below the 
corresponding building in the 
Progress area.
Note: You only get to move a Progress cube if 
you create or increase the size of a Complex 
(2 or more connected Buildings of the same 
type). Constructing a standalone Building not 
connected to another Building of the same type 
does not allow you to move a Progress cube. 
Note: Constructing a Shelter Complex does not 
allow you to move a Progress cube.
•	 If you placed a Mine, you must 
place 1 Colonist from your Living 
Quarters onto the Mine. If you 
do not have any Colonists in 
your Living Quarters, you cannot 
build a Mine. That Colonist is now 
considered a Miner and will produce Minerals 
when you travel to Orbit (see page 20).
•	 If you constructed an LSS Building, move the 
corresponding marker on the LSS track up by 
1 space, if able. This may trigger LSS Rewards 
(see page 15).
LSS BUILDINGS:
An LSS Building is one of the types which is 
critical to the colony. These are depicted in 
the LSS area of the game board.
DISPLACEMENT RULE:
top of a Crystal, return it to the general 
supply.
top of a Discovery or Research tile, return it 
to the game box.
top of a Bot or Rover, that piece must be 
moved away from its current position by its 
owner to the closest available hex (either 
an empty hex or a Building with no other 
piece on it).
Generator
Water 
Extractor
Greenhouse
Oxygen 
Condenser
PROGRESS AREA:
In the bottom right of the main board is the 
Progress area. Progress cubes placed in this 
area will score points during the first and 
second Colony upgrade (see sidebar, page 16), 
and at the end of the game.
Building Shelters for Colonists to live 
in requires Oxygen, generating Oxygen 
requires Plants, growing Plants requires 
Water, extracting Water requires Power, 
generating Power requires mining Minerals, 
and mining Minerals requires Colonists.
MARS 
CONSTRUCTION 
CYCLE

USING TECHNOLOGY TO CONSTRUCT:
If you construct a Building which creates or 
increases the size of a Complex (i.e. you are 
placing a Building adjacent to a Building of 
the same type), you must use a related Tech 
tile. e.g. To place a Greenhouse adjacent 
to another Greenhouse, you need to use a 
Greenhouse Tech tile. 
The level of the Tech tile used must be 
equal to or greater than the total number 
of Buildings that you are connecting to. If 
connecting to an existing complex of Buildings, 
each Building in that Complex counts as 1 
Building, even if the Building is not directly 
connected to the new Building. See page 11 for 
the full rules on using Tech tiles.
Examples: 
Constructing a Water 
Extractor next to another 
single Water Extractor 
requires the use of a Water 
Tech tile which is at least 
level 1 because you are 
connecting to 1 other 
Water Extractor. 
Constructing a Water Extractor between 
a single Water Extractor and a Complex 
of two Water 
Extractors 
requires the 
use of a 
Water Tech 
tile which is 
at least level 
3 because you 
are connecting 
to 3 other Water 
Extractors.
Constructing a Water Extractor adjacent 
to at least one tile of a size 3 Complex of 
Water Extractors requires the use 
of a Water Tech tile which 
is at least level 
3 because you 
are connecting 
(directly and 
indirectly) to 
3 other Water 
Extractors.
Example of Constructing:
Purple wants to construct an Oxygen 
Condenser. This costs 1 Plant which is paid 
to the supply.
The four possible locations for the building 
are shown above.
If the Oxygen Tech tile is owned by any 
player, Purple could use that Tech to 
create an Oxygen Condenser Complex 
on either of these hexes (creating a 
Complex of size 2).
If the Oxygen Tech tile is not owned 
by any player, or Purple chooses not 
to use it, Purple can construct a new 
standalone Oxygen Condenser.
For the rest of this 
example, we will 
assume that Purple 
has the Oxygen Tech 
tile to be able to 
create a Complex.
Purple chooses to place the new Oxygen 
Condenser next to an existing one, creating 
a Complex.
Crystals are added to all empty hexes pointed 
to by an arrow on the back of the new 
Building. The tile is then flipped face up.
Purple gains 2 Oxygen (because it is a size 
2 Oxygen Condenser Complex). However, 
he only has storage capacity for 1 more, so 
1 is returned to the supply.
Because this is the first time in 
the game that Purple has created 
or increased the size of an Oxygen 
Condenser Complex, he gets to move 
one of his Progress cubes from his 
Player board to the Progress area.
The Oxygen marker in the LSS is moved up to 
show that there are now 2 Oxygen Condensers 
on Mars. This triggers LSS rewards, which are 
described on the next page.

Mines work in a few different ways. They are not 
part of the LSS and the Minerals they produce 
cannot be acquired from the Warehouse. Mines 
are built in the same way as other Buildings, 
but instead of paying a Resource to place the 
tile, you must place 1 Colonist from your Living 
Quarters on the Mine after it has been placed. 
If you do not have a Colonist in your Living 
Quarters, you cannot build the Mine. 
In addition to the Minerals received from placing 
a Mine, each of your Colonists on a Mine also 
produces 1 Mineral every time you travel to Orbit 
(see page 20). 
Creating or Increasing the size of a Mine Complex 
allows you to place your Progress cube in the 
Progress area as normal.
Even if a Colonist is working in a Mine, the 
mine is not owned by any player. Therefore, any 
player may upgrade a mine with another player’s 
Colonist on it (see page 16).
The LSS represents the essential buildings 
needed to maintain survival on Mars and allow 
more Colonists to arrive. It also shows the 
current Colony level, which is the row below 
where the Colony level marker is. At the start of 
the game, the marker is on the second row, so 
the Colony level is 1.
Each column represents a subsystem of the LSS 
and tracks the number of constructed Buildings 
of the corresponding type on the map. Each 
time a Building tile is placed on the board, move 
the marker in its column 1 space up, unless it is 
already at the top of the column. 
The first time an LSS Building of each type is 
built (i.e. moving the marker from the bottom 
row to the next row up), the player who built that 
Building scores 2 OP.
Also, if the marker was below the row where 
the Colony level marker is before it was moved, 
the player who advances the marker gains two 
additional benefits:
1.	 OP according to the 
LSS Reward tile at the 
top of the column the 
marker is in. Do not 
remove the LSS tile.
2.	One of the benefits shown 	
	
	
	
in the top-left of the LSS.
The LSS Reward tiles and other benefits are all 
explained in the Reference book.
MINES: 
Resource mining will be one of 
the most lucrative industries 
on Mars. Private companies 
will compete for the rights 
to mine the most profitable 
regions of the planet.
The row occupied by the Colony level marker represents the current needs of 
the colony. At the start of the game, there is one of each Building on the map 
and the colony wants two of everything. Players who help meet that need (by 
placing the appropriate Building tile) will gain a bonus. However, advancing 
the marker further before the Colony level marker has advanced will not give 
you a bonus because the colony does not need that type of Building right now.
Example: Constructing a Mine
Yellow wants to build a new Mine. The Mine 
Tech tile is not currently in play, so she 
cannot create a Mine Complex.
Instead, she constructs a new standalone Mine.
To do so, she places one of her Colonists 
from her Living Quarters onto the Mine. 
The Bot is displaced to a nearby hex.
She gains 1 
Mineral.
The current Colony level also determines the 
frequency of travel of the Shuttle. See next 
page for a full explanation of this.
LSS Reward examples 
A Power Generator is constructed. Since the 
marker was below the Colony level marker 
before construction, LSS rewards apply.
Another Power Generator is constructed. 	
No LSS rewards apply because the marker 
was not below the Colony level marker.
LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM (LSS) 

UPGRADE A BUILDING: 
The only way to have a self-sustaining colony on Mars is by upgrading the basic 
buildings to advanced ones using the latest terrestrial and Martian technology. 
This action allows you to use a Blueprint you 
have previously taken to upgrade one of the 
Buildings on the map into an Advanced Building. 
•	 Each Building can only be upgraded once.
•	 Each Blueprint can only be used once.
Advanced Buildings produce Resources when you 
travel to Orbit and also have a special action 
which can be used as an Executive action (see 
page 18).
The icon in the top-center of the blueprint 
indicates the minimum size of building that can 
be upgraded. The icon in the bottom indicates 
the type.
A level-1 Blueprint can be used to upgrade any of 
the corresponding Buildings.
A level-3 Blueprint can be used to upgrade a 
corresponding Building as long as it is part of a 
Complex of size 3 or greater.
To upgrade a Building, it must be in the Building 
zone of one of your Bots. Also, when upgrading 
a Shelter, you can only upgrade one of your 
Shelters, not one belonging to another player.
To upgrade, follow these steps:
1.	 Choose a Blueprint and matching Building.
2.	Pay 1 Mineral to the general supply.
3.	Take your Advanced Building marker from the 
Blueprint and place it on the Building tile that 
you are upgrading.
•	 If there was a Bot or Rover on the tile, 
follow the Displacement rule on page 13.
•	 If there was a Colonist on the tile, move 
that Colonist back to the owner’s Living 
Quarters. If there is not enough space for 
them, return them to that player’s supply.
If you use an Upgrade Tech tile 
(yours or another player’s) when 
performing this action, you may 
repeat this process up to a number 
of times equal to the level of the 
Tech tile used. I.e. if you use a level 2 tech, you 
may perform up to 3 upgrades.
Example: Upgrading a Building 
Green upgrades the Water 
Extractor with the Private 
Ship Blueprint. 
This costs 1 Mineral.
Green moves the Advanced Building marker 
from the Blueprint onto the Building.
Whenever all of the markers advance to the row 
with the Colony level marker (or higher), the 
Colony Status is updated at the end of your turn. 
Follow these steps:
1.	 Move the Colony level marker up one row.
2.	New Blueprint cards may be added to the 
display.
•	 If the colony has just reached Lvl 2, remove 
all remaining Blueprints from the display 
(place them back in the box) add the top 12 
cards from the Blueprint deck to the display 
(this will be the remaining 6 Lvl 1 cards and 
6 Lvl 3 cards.)
•	 If the colony has just reached Lvl 3, remove 
all Lvl 1 Blueprints from the display (place 
them back in the box) add the remaining 6 
Lvl 3 cards from the deck to the display.
3.	Refill any empty spaces in the Tech Grid with 
new Tech tiles from the stack (fill spaces from 
bottom to top).
Note: Skip this step in a 2-player game.
4.	Refill the Warehouse with Crystals and 
Resources from the general supply until there 
are 3 of each.
Note: In a 2-player game, refill only 2 of each.
5.	The first two times the 
Colony Status is updated 
each player gains 
1/2/4/7/11 points for having 
1/2/3/4/5 cubes in the 
Progress area.
6.	If the Colony Level is 
now at 3 or higher, move 
the Remaining Missions 
marker one space to the 
right (see page 19). If the Remaining Missions 
marker was already on space 1, the end of the 
game is triggered.
Example of Progress area scoring:
Purple has 3 Progress cubes and scores 4.
Yellow has 1 Progress cube and scores 1.
Green has 1 Progress cube and scores 1.
Blue has no Progress cubes and scores 0.
COLONY STATUS UPDATE 
Example: Colony Level increase
A Greenhouse is constructed and there are 
now two of each LSS Building on Mars. The 
Colony increases to Level 2!

HIRE A SCIENTIST OR TAKE AN EARTH CONTRACT: 
It’s a mistake to try to build a sustainable colony on a distant planet without any 
scientists. The knowledge and study of the unknown is in their hands. In fact, these will 
be the leaders of all expeditions on Earth or on any distant planet. 
WELCOME A SHIP:
Once sustainable conditions are created on the colony, new ships arrive with the next 
generation of colonists and machines to help the colony expansion.
At the start of the game, only the 6 Scientists 
are available in the display. As they get taken, 
they will be replaced by Contract cards.
This action has only one available slot per player. 
You can not take this action if you already have 
a Colonist there. You still pay any additional cost 
to take this action based on Colonists of other 
colors on Action slots.
Note: Unlike other actions, these Action slots do 
not clear when they are all full. You must retrieve 
your Colonists by other means (such as when you 
travel — see page 20).
1.	 Choose a card on the display and pay the 
indicated cost as depicted on the display 
board. (The cost to take the Geologist is 
moving 2 Colonists from your Living Quarters 
to your Working Area.)
2.	Take the card and place it face up in front 
of you. If you took a Scientist, also take the 
Scientist marker on the card.
3.	At the end of your turn, refill the slot on the 
display with a Contract card of your choice. 
You may freely look through them and choose 
the one you want. Place the Contract on the 
lower half of the space (covering over the old 
Scientist cost, and leaving the Crystal on the 
space visible).
EARTH CONTRACTS
Cost to take: 1 Crystal.
If you complete a Contract at the end of the 
game, gain the OP depicted. If you fail to 
complete it, you lose the OP depicted instead.
There are two types of Contract:
Delivery Contracts: 	
Once you have one of 
these contracts, you 
may move Crystals and 
Resources of the depicted 
types from your Player 
board onto the Contract at 
any time during the game. 
Anything you gain that is required by the 
Contract can be placed directly on the card, 
bypassing your Player board. To complete this 
Contract, all of the depicted items must be 
on the card at the end of the game. Minerals 
cannot be used as another type of Resource for 
completing a Contract.
Upgrade Contracts: 	
To complete this type of 
Contract, at the end of 
the game you must have 
an Advanced building 
marker on a Building of 
the depicted type that is 
part of a Complex of at 
least size 4. 
This action allows you to move any 1 of your 
Private Ships from your Depot to your Hangar. The 
cost of doing this is 1 Plant and 1 Water (there is a 
reminder of this to the left of your Depot).
When you do this, gain either:
•	 1 Colonist and 1 Bot, or 
•	 2 Colonists. 
Place new Colonists in empty spaces in your 
Living Quarters, if able.
Place a new Bot on one of your Shelters that 
is currently empty. If none of your Shelters are 
empty, place the Bot on the closest available 
empty space to one of your Shelters.
move 1 additional Ship. You must pay 1 Water and 
1 Plant for, and receive the benefits from, each 
ship as normal.
Note: You cannot boost this action with Colonists 
you just gained this turn.
 
The number of ships in total that can be 
removed from your Depot is equal to the current 
Colony level.
Ships in your Hangar are worth points at the end 
of the game, but you can discard one during the 
Shuttle phase to travel (see page 19).
Scientists are explained on the next page.
-4
-6
Example of Welcoming a Ship: 
The Colony level is currently 3. You have 
previously welcomed 2 Ships, one of which 
you discarded to travel, leaving you 1 Ship 
in your Hangar. If you choose this action 
again, you can only welcome 1 new Ship 
(you cannot boost the Action), since you 
have already taken 2 Ships from your 
Depot, and the limit is currently 3.

Once per turn, before or after your Main action, 
you may perform one of the Executive actions 
available to you.
Your Executive actions are shown next to the slots 
in your Depot. An action is available to you as 
long as you do not have a ship on that space (i.e. 
at the start of the game, you only have access to 
the bottom 3 Executive actions in your Depot).
Each action has a cost in Crystals associated with 
it, and you must pay that amount of Crystals to 
perform the action.
The different Executive actions are described in 
the Reference book.
MARS CRYSTALS (MARSINUM):
At the start of the game, you have space in 
your Depot to store 3 Crystals. This can be 
increased by Welcoming new Ships. Crystals 
are needed to pay for Executive actions.
Reminder: Any Crystals gained are placed in 
the space below your Depot; you cannot spend 
them on the turn you gain them.
SCIENTISTS AND ADVANCED BUILDINGS 
One of the Executive actions is 
to use one of your own Advanced 
Buildings at a cost of 2 Crystals. 
However, if you have a Scientist, 
you can put them to work in an 
Advanced Building that matches their specialty, 
even a Building belonging to another player.
To do this, move the Scientist marker from 
wherever it currently is to the Blueprint card 
you wish to use, and then proceed with the 
appropriate Executive action.
As long as a Scientist is working in a Building, 
both the owner of the Scientist and the owner of 
the Building may perform the Executive action of 
that Building at no cost.
A Scientist must stay working in a building until 
they are moved out to work in another Building.
Scientists also grant OP at the end of the game 
based on the number of Advanced Buildings on 
Mars of the indicated type.
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS
Marsinum is a new crystal being found on Mars for the first time. It is made up of radioactive isotopes forming a crystal structure, 
never seen before. Its structure allows it to concentrate huge amounts of energy in its crystal lattice, making it not only 
radioactive but highly unstable as well and thus very dangerous. However, if handled appropriately, it constitutes a great source 
of energy never seen before. 
The main use of Marsinum is to power up Bots and Rovers, but it is also used to trade favors. These Crystals are slowly becoming 
very valuable on Mars. I chose to create these crystals as a game currency because I believe no money will be used during the 
first 100 years of Mars colonization. I like to imagine a power that has not been discovered until we reach another planet, and this 
is the story that I would like to tell in this game.
If you prefer a more realistic approach, the crystals can represent Uranium, a very radioactive heavy metal, which has been used 
as a source of concentrated energy and was already found on Mars. It’s rare, powerful, and can easily be traded.
Example: Using a Scientist 
On his turn, Blue wants to perform the 
action of the Private Ship owned by Green.
Blue has the Hydrologist, so he is able 
to do this. Blue places the Hydrologist 
marker on Green’s Blueprint card and then 
performs the action for free. On her turn, 
Green may also perform the action of that 
building as her Executive action for free.
Example: Executive actions 
Earlier in the game, Purple has Welcomed 
1 Ship. He now has four possible Executive 
actions available to him.
BOOSTING TECH 
WITH COLONISTS
Some Advanced Building 
actions depict the Teal 
Colonist icon at the 
bottom. This means that 
you may send Colonists 
to your Working Area to 
temporarily add to the 
level of the tech when 
taking the action.
For example:
You are activating the Executive action 
of the Concentrator. This allows you to 
construct a Oxygen Condenser. You want 
to increase the size of an existing Oxygen 
Condenser Complex from size 3 to size 4. 
This requires a Tech tile of level 3 but you 
only have a related Tech tile of level 2. You 
move 1 Colonist from your Living Quarters 
to your Working Area to count as the level 
you are missing.
CONCENTRATOR

At the start of this phase, move the Shuttle one 
space towards the middle of the board following 
the arrows. If the Shuttle is already on the red 
Travel space closest to the middle of the board, it 
travels instead.
If the Shuttle travels, move it to the Travel space 
on the opposite side indicated by the current 
Colony level.
As the colony starts to become more and more 
self-sustained and less dependent on Earth’s 
resources, the frequency of the shuttle is reduced.
Then in turn order, all players decide if they will 
travel or not. All players may travel in this phase, 
whether the Shuttle itself traveled or not.
If the Shuttle travels, and your Player marker is 
on the side that the Shuttle moved from, you can 
catch a lift with the Shuttle and travel for free. 
Otherwise, you may still travel, but to do so, you 
must remove a ship from your Hangar (place it 
back in the game box).
If you decide not to travel, stand your player 
marker back up. You do not get the bonus of the 
Turn Order space again.
If you decide to travel, follow the steps described 
on the next page:
During Setup, 3 Mission cards 
are placed on the board. 
Each Mission card depicts an 
objective for the colony. If you 
contribute to that objective, 
gain the Crystals shown on the card for each 
contribution and place them below your Depot. 
Also, move the Mission tracker cube down 1 space. 
Once the requirements of the Mission are fully met 
(the cube reaches the space with the checkmark), 
remove the card from the game and move the 
Remaining Missions marker 1 space to the right.
See the reference book for details of the Missions.
Once a total of 3 Missions have been completed 
collectively by all players, the end of the game is 
triggered (see page 21).
Note: The number of Missions required to trigger 
the end of the game can be reduced based on the 
Colony Level (see sidebar).
You start the game with 3 
Private Goal cards, each of 
which depicts the requirements 
necessary to complete it. Each 
Private Goal is fully explained 
in the Reference book. 
During your turn in the Colonization phase, if at 
any point you meet the requirements of the card, 
you may complete the Goal by placing it face up 
next to your player board and taking one of the 
rewards depicted.
Each player can only complete one Private Goal 
during the game.
Also, on your turn, you may discard a Private 
Goal from your hand (return it unseen to the box) 
and use it as if it were a Crystal. You may do this 
before and after completing your Private Goal 
(or, do not complete any Goal, and use all the 
cards as Crystals).
Note: You discard the card and use it as if it 
were a Crystal. You do not discard the card and 
take a Crystal.
MISSIONS
PRIVATE GOALS
If the Colony reaches level 3, the 
number of completed Missions 
required to end the game is 2.
At Colony level 4, the number 
of completed Missions 
required to end the game is 1.
At Colony level 5, the end of the 
game is triggered, even if no 
Missions have been completed.
In each case, advance the Remaining Missions 
marker one space to track how many more are 
still needed.
Shuttle Phase Example:
The Colony level is currently 2 and the Shuttle 
is currently on Travel space 1 on the Orbit side.
In the Shuttle phase, the Shuttle travels and is 
placed on Travel space 2 of the Colony side.
Missions are sent from Earth which determine 
the most important steps of colonization.
Each company has its own priorities.

1.	 Move your Player marker 
to the Exploration space.
a.	Place 1 of the face up Discovery tiles that 
is on the Exploration space on an empty 
hex exactly 3 spaces away from your Rover. 
If your Rover is not yet on the map, it is 
counted as being at the starting Mine in the 
center of the board. If there is no available 
hex for you to place the tile, it does not get 
placed, skip step b.
b.	Replace the tile with a new one from the 
top of the stack, face up. 
2.	Move your Player marker to the 
Retrieve Colonists space.
a.	Move all of your Colonists 
from Action slots on the Colony side of the 
board back to your Living Quarters (If you 
started the game on the Orbit side, the first 
time you travel to the Colony, you will not 
have any Colonists there).
b.	Move all Colonists in your Working Area 
back to your Living Quarters.
Note: When returning Colonists to your Living 
Quarters, if there are not enough slots for 
them, return any excess to your personal 
supply next to your Player board.
3.	Move your Player marker to any empty Turn 
Order space on the Colony side.
You may gain the bonus printed on the space 
(see the Reference book). If the bonus triggers 
another bonus, gain it also. However, if any 
bonus has a cost associated with it, that cost 
must be paid in order to receive the bonus.
1.	 Move your Player marker to the 
Production space. 
Each of your Advanced Buildings on Mars 
produces 1 Resource corresponding to the 
type of building. Each Advanced Building you 
have on a Shelter produces a Crystal, and each 
of your Colonists/Advanced Buildings on the 
mines will produce 1 Mineral.
2.	Move your Player marker to the 
Retrieve Colonists space.
a.	Move all of your Colonists from the Orbit 
side of the board back to your Living 
Quarters.
b.	Move all Colonists in your Working Area 
back to your Living Quarters.
Note: When returning Colonists to your Living 
Quarters, if there are not enough slots for 
them, return any excess to your personal 
supply next to your Player board.
3.	Move your Player marker to any empty Turn 
Order space on the Orbit side.
You may gain the bonus printed on the space 
(see the Reference book). If the bonus triggers 
another bonus, gain it also. However, if any 
bonus has a cost associated with it, that cost 
must be paid in order to receive the bonus.
TRAVEL TO THE COLONY
Example: Placing a Discovery tile
Example: Production
These are the possible hexes for a 
Discovery tile to be placed by Purple.
When Yellow travels to Orbit, her Mine 
and Power Generator produce. She gains 1 
Mineral and 1 Battery. 
TRAVEL TO ORBIT

At the end of the Colonization phase, if the 
Remaining Missions marker has reached the end 
of its track (which may be caused by completing 
3 missions, progressing the colony to a high 
level, or a combination of both), the end of the 
game is triggered.
When the end of the game is triggered, play until 
the end of the current round, and then play 1 more 
round. Skip the Shuttle phase in the final round. 
Each player moves any Crystals they gained in the 
last round into their Depot as normal.
Then calculate each player’s score as follows:
1/2/4/7/11 OP for having 1/2/3/4/5 Progress 
cubes in the Progress area, as you did 
when advancing the colony level.
3 OP for each ship you have in your 
Hangar.
Return all Colonists from the side of 
the board where your Player marker is, 
and from your Working Area, back to 
your Living Quarters. Slots in the Living 
Quarters must be filled from bottom to 
top. If there is not enough space, place the 
excess in your personal supply. You score 
OP according to the indicated number next 
to your highest located Colonist.
Each Tech tile in your Laboratory is worth 
a number of OP indicated below the column 
it is in.
OP for Advanced Buildings, 3 points for Lvl 
1 card and 5 points for Lvl 3 cards. Lose 3 
points for every unbuilt Lvl 1 Blueprint and 
5 points for every unbuilt Lvl 3 Blueprint.
Each Scientist scores 3 OP for each 
Advanced Building of the indicated types 
on Mars, no matter who owns it.
Gain or lose OP for each Earth Contract 
card as depicted on the card based on 
whether you completed it or not. (You may 
transfer any Resources or Crystals to any 
contracts at this time.)
After adding end-game scoring to points scored 
during the game, the player with the most 
Opportunity Points is declared the winner.
	
In the case of a tie, the player with the most 
Crystals is the winner. If there is still a tie, the 
player with the most advanced buildings is the 
winner. If there is still a tie, the player with the 
most Progress cubes in the Progress area is the 
winner. If there is still a tie, tied players share 
the victory.
END OF THE GAME
 Colonists
SCORING EXAMPLES
Green scores 
10 OP for her 
Colonists.
Green scores 8 OP for her Advanced Buildings (3 + 3 — 3 + 5).
 Advanced Buildings
Earth Contracts
Green loses 4 OP for having 
an incomplete Earth Contract 
(missing 1 Water).
 Technology
Green scores 18 OP for her Tech tiles (1 + 4 + 4 + 9).
Green scores 6 OP for her 
Hydrologist (2 upgraded 
Greenhouses).
Scientists

In the solo game, you will be competing directly 
with one opponent: Lacerda. 
To win the game, you must fulfill all the 
requirments of any one of the goals shown on 
the following page. 
Play with the general game rules for 2 players 
with the following exceptions:
SETUP
Choose a color for yourself and another for 
Lacerda’s company. Setup both Player boards 
and the main board as for a 2-player game with 
two exceptions:
•	 Lacerda does not get any Private Goal cards.
•	 Instead of placing Lacerda’s Bot on his 
Shelter, place it on the icon of the Mine in the 
Progress Area. 
In addition, shuffle the solo deck and place it 
face down nearby.
Shuffle the First Colonists tiles and 
choose one at random. This is the 
starting Turn Order space for Lacerda. 
Then, choose a Turn Order space for 
yourself (or use a random one), gaining 
the benefit as usual. The Shuttle starts in 
the red space on the same side as Lacerda.
On Lacerda’s turn, reveal the top card from the 
solo deck. He performs an action (detailed below) 
and then the card is discarded.
When the solo deck is empty, the next time Lacerda 
takes a turn, reshuffle the discarded cards to make 
a new deck and then reveal the top one as normal. 
After you have shuffled the deck once (the 2nd 
time through the deck), in addition to Lacerda 
performing the action, also move the indicated 
Mission tracker cube down one space. He gets 
Crystals for contributing to the Mission as usual.
•	 Lacerda always chooses to travel 
with the Shuttle unless the most 
recent solo card depicts an X next 
to the cube in the top of the card, 
in which case he does not travel.
When Lacerda travels, choose an available Turn 
Order space at random. Resolve the travel as 
normal, but with the following changes:
•	 When traveling to Orbit, Lacerda skips both steps.
•	 When traveling to the Colony, Lacerda 
places a Discovery tile but skips the retrieve 
Colonists step.
•	 When placing a Discovery tile, Lacerda always 
places the leftmost Discovery tile from the 
Exploration space. It is placed 3 spaces away 
from his Rover as far away as possible from your 
Rover as possible. When Lacerda travels to the 
Colony, after choosing a Turn Order space, he 
constructs a Building, following the same rules 
as Action 1 - Construct a Building (see below).
EXTRA RULES FOR LACERDA
•	 Lacerda always has as many Colonists as he 
needs. At the end of the game, all spaces in 
his Living Quarters are considered occupied 
for scoring.
•	 Lacerda does not take any Executive actions. 
•	 When the Colony levels up, at the end of the 
current player’s turn, Lacerda builds a Shelter 
(a Complex if possible) and Welcomes a new 
Ship. He never spends his own Ships, just 
keeps them to score. 
•	 Lacerda never collects or stores resources. He 
never pays Resources to take any action.
•	 Lacerda gains Crystals as normal (Constructing 
Shelters, taking a Shelter Blueprint, contributing 
to a Mission, etc.). The number of Crystals he 
can store is limited to spaces in his Depot.
•	 When Lacerda builds a LSS building, if he has a 
Colonist on the Hire a Scientists action slot, he 
chooses the reward of retrieving that Colonist. 
If he does not have a Colonist there, he gains a 
Crystal instead.
•	 When Lacerda scores this tile, treat his 
Living Quarters as if it is full of Colonists.
•	 Lacerda always uses Tech if it is 
available. You get an Oxygen as normal if he 
uses your Tech.
•	 When he moves his Bot, move it to the next icon 
in the LSS sequence (Mine > Generator > Water 
Extractor > Greenhouse > Oxygen Condenser > 
back to Mine, etc.).
TURN ORDER SPACE BENEFITS
Lacerda takes whatever there is the most 
of. In case of a tie, he takes the leftmost 
one (Crystals first). Any Resources taken 
are placed into the general supply.
Lacerda takes a Tech tile as as described 
under LEARN NEW TECHNOLOGY action 
on the next page.
Since Lacerda always has all the 
Colonists he needs, instead he moves his 
Rover (see below).
Move Lacerda’s Bot using the rules 
described above.
Lacerda takes a Blueprint as described 
under OBTAIN BLUEPRINT action on the 
next page.
COLONIST PLACEMENT COST AND ILLEGAL MOVES
Lacerda always has to place a Colonist on actions 
that depict a Red Colonist. He pays the additional 
cost with Crystals, he cannot pay with Colonists. 
If he does not have enough Crystals to pay, or 
if the move he is doing is not allowed for some 
reason (no space in his Lab to learn more Techs, 
no Blueprints available, Scientist slot is already 
occupied, etc.), then instead of performing the 
action, he moves his Rover instead.
MOVING LACERDA’S ROVER
Whenever Lacerda moves his Rover, it moves 
toward the closest tile (either Research or 
Discovery) that it can collect. Do not count any 
Discovery tiles that give Resources as they are 
useless to Lacerda. If tied, check the Resolving 
Ambiguities rules. He uses any available Tech 
and spends additional Crystals if required. If he 
reaches a tile, it is resolved immediately.
SOLO GAME
Mission marker to move
Lacerda’s action
Lacerda places a Discovery tile.

ORBIT SIDE - LACERDA’S ACTIONS
The number in the Astronaut image 
indicates the action that Lacerda will take. 
ACTION 1. OBTAIN BLUEPRINT:
Take the Blueprint of a type that scores 
Lacerda’s Scientists. If tied, take the 
leftmost card from the row with the most 
cards in it (bottom row if tied). 
ACTION 2. LEARN NEW TECHNOLOGY: 
Lacerda takes the cheapest one, leftmost if 
there are more than one. Place it in Lacerda’s 
laboratory, top space first, taking benefit as 
normal (see above for Warehouse priority).
ACTION 3. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D):
Lacerda develops the most-developed Tech 
that can be developed once, then the least-
developed Tech that can be developed 
once. If two Techs are tied, develop the 
bottom one.
RESUPPLY: 
Lacerda only takes this action in the Shuttle 
Phase when his astronaut is placed on the 
Resupply space of the turn order track, or by 
placing a Tech tile on the appropriate space 
of his Lab. 
LANDING POD: 
He never takes it.
COLONY SIDE - LACERDA’S ACTIONS
ACTION 1. CONSTRUCT A BUILDING:
Lacerda always builds the Building 
corresponding to the icon his Bot is 
on, but only if the LSS marker for that 
Building is below the Colony level marker.
If his Bot is on the icon for a Building 
whose marker is above the current Colony 
level, he builds the next Building in the 
sequence, unless that Building’s marker is 
above the current Colony level, and so on. 
He always constructs a Mine if that is next 
in the sequence.
When constructing, Lacerda always tries 
to build the largest Complex possible using 
any available Tech. If there is more than 
one legal Building placement, check the 
Resolving Ambiguities rules.
After constructing, move his Bot to 
the next icon in the sequence after the 
Building that was just constructed.
ACTION 2. UPGRADE A BUILDING:
Lacerda uses one of his Blueprints and 
upgrades a Building anywhere on the board. 
If the Upgrade Tech is in play, he uses it if 
able to upgrade as many Buildings as he can.
If there is more than one Blueprint to 
upgrade, he gives preference to the one that 
increases the OP provided by his Scientists.
ACTION 3. HIRE A SCIENTIST OR TAKE AN 
EARTH CONTRACT:
Lacerda hires the Scientist that will score 
him the most potential OP based on the 
number of Blueprints owned by each player 
(whether used to upgrade yet or not). Once 
he has two Scientists, he takes a Contract 
instead (the one worth the most OP). His 
Contracts are considered automatically 
completed. After taking the Scientist 
or Contract card, Lacerda shuffles the 
Contract deck and refills the display with 
the top card.
COLONY LEVELS UP
Every time this happens, Lacerda places a Shelter 
according to the construction rules above, then 
he takes 1 Bot which is placed on his Player 
board. It is never placed on the main board, but it 
counts towards LSS Rewards or Missions.
SOLO GOALS
These are the goals of the game:
lvl 1 - First Colonists
•	 Complete at least 1 Contract
•	 Have a level 6 Tech tile 
•	 Have more OP than Lacerda
lvl 2 - Next Generation
•	 Complete at least 2 Contracts, 1 of each type
•	 Have at least 2 Research tiles
•	 Have at least 4 Shelters built
•	 Beat Lacerda by 10 OP or more
lvl 3 - Hunky Dory 
•	 Reach at least Colony level 4
•	 Complete at least 2 Contracts, 1 of each type
•	 Have Colonists and/or Advanced Building 
markers on at least 3 Mines
•	 Have at least 5 Advanced Buildings
•	 Beat Lacerda by 20 OP or more
A Martian Potato survival scenario
•	 Complete the size 4 Greenhouse Contract 
•	 Complete the Delivery Contract with Plants 
and Minerals (#11)
•	 Take the Biochemist
•	 Have at least 3 Greenhouse advanced 
buildings
•	 Expand a Greenhouse Complex to at least 
size 5
•	 Have at least 5 Plants in storage
•	 Take at least 2 Research tiles
•	 Have the Greenhouse Tech at level 6
•	 Finish the game in Orbit
•	 Beat Lacerda by 30 OP or more
RESOLVING AMBIGUITIES
During the game, there will be times when 
Lacerda has more than one choice. In these 
cases, you must always choose the option 
which gives the most advantage to Lacerda. 
If there isn’t a clear choice, give a number to 
each of the choices and draw cards from the 
solo deck until one of those numbers shows 
up and then choose that option. Then shuffle 
the cards into the deck.
Constructing example
His Bot is on the Plant icon. However, 
the Colony is at level 1 and there are 
already 2 Greenhouses on the board, so 
he considers constructing an Oxygen 
Condenser instead. However, there are 
also already 2 of those on the map, so he 
constructs a Mine.

The Author wishes to warmly thank for playtesting, comments, and suggestions:
Alan Castree, Brandon Graham, Carlos Paiva, Catarina Sarmento, Cassandra Witiver, Chris Arnold, Chris Giovingo, 
Christophe Gaudin, Dan Zilkha, Dave Fazekas, David Bock, David Kwee, Euan Denniston, Gert Delen, Ian Gent, Ian 
O’Toole, Inês Pires, Jake Blomquist, Jason Grantz, João José Gois, João Tereso, Johnny Hollander, Juan Ottonello, 
Larry Eisenstein, Luca Giordano, Govind Krishna, Kiran Wagle, Malcolm King, Marcos Pereira da Silva, Marlene 
Fernández, Marne Braun, Mateusz Kaczmarczyk, Max Zehentbauer, Mitchell Chiappalone, Michael Varela Da Silva, 
Mohamad Sobh, Neilan Naicker, Nicola Bocchetta, Nicholas P, Nils Urdahl, Nikola Stojanovski, Pablo Fontanilla, Paul 
Grogan, 	Paul Incao, Paulo Renato, Paulo Terça, Pedro Almeida, Peter Dringautzki, Randal Lloyd, Rand Lemley, 
Ricardo Almeida, Roman Babkin, Russ DeLuca, Sandra Sarmento, Sofia Passinhas, W. Shan Cheng, Warren Adams, 
William Aukes, Sharaf Alshareef, Shay Rickman, Thomas Berggren, Tim Kirkwood.
A huge thank you as well to my Discord group for the great and long design discussions and suggestions, 
thank you also to the BGG community for their support. Without all of these people this game would not 
have been possible.
All my love to my beautiful daughters Catarina and Inês and to my muse and greatest friend, my wife 
Sandra, for their patience, support, and inspiration.
For support, email us at:	
	
	
customer-service@eagle-gryphon.com
Like us on Facebook: 	
	
	
	
www.facebook.com/EagleGryphon/
Follow us on Twitter: @EagleGryphon 
©2019 FRED Distribution Inc.
801 Commerce Drive, building #5.
Leitchfield, KY 42754
All Rights Reserved.
www.eagle-gryphon.com
CREDITS
1.	 During setup, place only 2 Crystals and 2 of 
each Resource in the Warehouse.
2.	During setup, return the 8 remaining tech 
tiles to the box.
3.	Check page 6 for the starting layout of 
Shelters.
4.	The additional cost to place a Colonist on an 
Action slot is equal to the number of Colonists 
already on Action slots for the chosen action 
(of both you and your opponent).
5.	Skip the refill of the Tech Grid since there 
aren’t any more tiles to do so.
6.	When refilling the Warehouse with Crystals 
and Resources from the general supply, add 
up to 2 of each.
When playing for the first time, it is 
recommended to use the 3 Mission cards shown 
below, the First Colonist tiles, and the First 
Colonist cards.
1.	 Use the following Mission cards:
The Mission markers should be placed on the 
following actions: Obtain a Blueprint, Hire a 
Scientist, and Control Center.
2.	First Colonist tiles: Instead of choosing a Turn 
Order space, shuffle the tiles and give each 
player one of them at random. Players then 
place their Player marker on the indicated Turn 
Order space and receive the benefit of that 
space (as described in the Reference book).
3.	First Colonist cards: During setup, 
shuffle the ‘A’ cards and deal each 
player one at random which they 
keep secret from the other players. 
Return any remaining ones to the 
box. Shuffle the ‘B’ cards and place 
them face down nearby. Each ‘A’ 
card depicts 4 types of Building. As soon as you 
construct any one of the Buildings depicted on 
your card you reveal the card, return it to the 
game box, and then draw the top 2 cards from 
the ‘B’ deck which you keep secret.
Each ‘B’ card depicts a task. If you 
complete that task, reveal it, gain 
the reward depicted, and then return 
the card to the box. You can only 
complete one task each turn.
2-PLAYER GAME
FIRST COLONISTS VARIANT 
A
B
SPACE ODDITY VARIANT 
In this variant, when the end of the game is 
triggered, play only until the end of the current 
Colonization phase. Be aware that if the last 
player to take a turn in the Colonization phase 
triggers the end of the game, the game will end 
immediately after that player’s turn. 
On Mars, most of the humans will be decision makers, scientists, politicians, poets, philosophers, or artists. 
They mostly have intellectual jobs leaving the physical work to machines. Any physical activity they may have 
will be purely for pleasure and good health, like sports or exercise.
Radiation, cold, and lack of oxygen will keep them inside shelters.
Game Design:	
	
	
	
	
Vital Lacerda
Game Art: 	
	
	
	
	
Ian O’Toole
Graphic Design & 3D Illustrations: 	
	
Ian O’Toole
Rulebook & 3D Illustrations: 	
	
	
João Tereso, Vital Lacerda
English Rules Writing: 	 	
	
	
Johnny Hollander, Paul Grogan, Vital Lacerda
English Rules Editing: 	
	
	
	
Paul Grogan - Gaming Rules!
Official Rules Video: 	
	
	
	
Gaming Rules!
Proofreading: 	 	
	
	
	
Brendan Irvin, Chris Spath, David Digby, 
Graham Charlton, Ori Avtalion, Phil the Sheep
Project Managers: 	
	
	
	
Randal Lloyd, Rick Soued
Main Playtesters: 	
	
	
	
Emanuel Diniz, Julián Pombo, Krys Bigosinski, 
Matthew Kury, Paul Eugene Gipson III, Rafael 
Pires, Renuka Bhalerao
Example: Obtain a Blueprint, gain a Crystal.