Item #CAG 037
You Need: 400 Poker Chips in four colors (100 each in
red, green, yellow, and gray); 40 Counters for each
player; two 6-sided Dice; three Paper Clips for each
player; and a Button or Token to designate the leader.
California: 1849.
Where the mayors of stupidly rich
Gold Rush towns can squander the
resources of their citizens on pretty
much whatever they want.
This month, it’s a race to the Moon.
Will it work? Probably not. The 
real goal is to earn enough votes to
become governor. But it seems the
best way to impress your pioneering
constituents is by doing something
grotesquely stupid and dangerous, 
like blasting them into space.
It’s one false step for Mankind, one
giant leap for you.
One
Mankind
for
Step
False
A Cheapass Board Game for 3-6 Players

About Cheapass Games:
We here at Cheapass Games are aware of two basic facts about board games: they cost too much, and they are at some level all the same.
If you ignore the clever shapes they come in, the cheap little plastic pawns are an interchangeable part of most of the board games in your house. So are the dice,
the money, the counters, the pencils, and just about every other random spare part. These generic bits and pieces can account for as much as 75% of a game’s pro-
duction cost, and that cost gets handed to you.
If you had your choice, you’d probably invest a little bit of money in one good set of gaming paraphernalia instead of twenty crappy ones, and then just buy the new
part of every “new” game. Yet most companies insist on selling you the whole package every time; it’s a little like bundling a can opener with a can of beans.
Cheapass Games come packaged with the bare essentials: boards, cards, and rulebooks. If you need anything else we’ll tell you. And it’s probably something you can
scrounge from a game you already own, or buy at a hobby store. Heck, if you need to, you can even buy the parts from us.
And once you’ve assembled your collection of generic game pieces, you can use them for every new Cheapass Game. We’ve
standardized our designs so your gaming toolbox will last.
To learn more about Cheapass Games, ask your local game retailer. 
Or visit our double-secret Web site at:
www.cheapass.com
One False Step for Mankind
One False Step for Mankind is a board game about Gold Rush towns with vast resources and only one thing to spend them
on: shooting a rocket to the Moon. This is a complex game, taking upwards of three hours to play, but we thoroughly enjoy it
and we think you will too. It’s also the first Cheapass boxed game to contain full-color boards and cards!
In One False Step, you take the role of a city mayor, controlling one or more towns on a random Old West board. You must
manage your gold mines, farms, and cities, trying to earn political influence by building and firing off Moon rockets. Successful
Moon shots earn you points, and the first player to earn 30 points wins the game.
If you like One False Step for Mankind, try some of our lighter games, like Kill Doctor Lucky, Freeloader, or Unexploded Cow.