2-4
14-
Giacomo Neri 
Riccardo Neri
A Board game Inspired by MOBA Video Games 

Miniatures add-on sold at 
www.playskytear.com
Video tutorial
Learn to play with a video at www.playskytear.com.
Overview
Onward is a competitive strategy game for 2 to 4 players 
that lasts about 1 hour. (Though for your first game, 
expect more like 2 hours.)
In Onward, players split into the Light and Shadow teams, 
with each player controlling two or more heroes. The 
goal is to destroy the enemy nexus, a portal in their base.
The game design is heavily inspired by a genre of video 
games called MOBA, but don’t worry—you don’t need any 
experience in those games to enjoy it! 
The rulebook dives into the setup and rules right away. 
If you prefer an extended overview first, see page 14.
Have fun! 
Giacomo and Riccardo
P.S. 
Make our day... leave a rating for Onward on 
BoardGameGeek.com after your first game!
Section 1: Getting started
Components........................................................... 3 
Setup....................................................................... 4
Section 2: How to play
Goal of the Game.................................................... 6 
Flow of the Game................................................... 6 
Shop Phase............................................................. 6 
Plan Phase.............................................................. 7 
Hero's Turn.............................................................. 7
Move Action............................................................ 8 
Pass Action............................................................. 8 
Attack Action.......................................................... 8 
Cast Action.............................................................. 9 
Reactive Cast Action.............................................. 9
Minion Phase........................................................ 10 
Jungling Phase..................................................... 11 
Onward Phase....................................................... 11
Section 3: Key concepts
HP and DMG (Damage)........................................ 12 
Areas..................................................................... 12 
Adjacent, Longer Distances................................. 12 
Targeting............................................................... 12 
Retaliate................................................................ 12 
Statuses................................................................ 12
Units...................................................................... 13
Section 4: APPENDIX
Tips to get Started................................................ 14 
Extended Overview............................................... 14 
Clarifications......................................................... 15 
Heroes Overview & Choosing Heroes................. 16 
Two-Lane Map Set Up.......................................... 17 
Legendary Expansion........................................... 17 
The Lore................................................................ 18 
Credits................................................................... 19
Reference page
Key terms, statuses, reminders........................... 20

Components
96 hero cards 
(6 per hero)
16 hero sheets 
(4 per color) 
4 player aids
16 hero figures and 
16 hero HP tokens
24 minion tokens 
and 6 figures
18 TOWER TOKENS 
(9 per team)
2 nexus HP tokens 
and 2 figures
18 monster / GOLD tokens 
(3 each of 6 types)
4 outsider tokens, 
1 figure and 1 sheet
48 item cards 
(12 per color)
30 status tokens 
(6 each of 5 types)
1 double-sided board
A. Nexus	 	
B. Lane	
	
C. Jungle		
D. River	
	
E. Market		
F. Hit Points and Day track
1 onward 
token
7 Gold Tokens 
(2 types)
1 skytear card
Unrelated to Onward, it allows you to 
play the outsider in Skytear (a game 
we previously released in 2020).
15 plastic bases
The transparent base is for the outsider 
figure. The colored bases are for the hero 
and minion figures (7 per team). 
Minion tokens and figures 
are interchangeable.
If you run out of components while playing, use a substitute piece instead. 
Missing something? Email help@playskytear.com for customer support.

J
I
K.2
K.3
Common Setup
The example image shows a 2 player setup. With 3 or 
4 players, the only difference is that there should be 
more decks and discard piles (step L and M).
TEAMS 
Players split into Light and Shadow teams, assigned 
randomly. 
Tokens with a gold border are for units friendly to the 
Light team. Tokens with a dark border are for units 
friendly to the Shadow team.
BOARD
Place the board in the middle of the table with the 
nexus area close to the respective team. 
For your first game, we recommend the 3-lane map, 
as shown. The setup for the 2-lane map is on pg. 17.
Onward token
Place the Onward token on the number 1 of 
the Day track with the Light team side up.
OUTSIDER
Place the 4 outsider tokens, the outsider sheet, 
and the outsider figure next to the board.
It will only enter play in a river area only once all 
heroes have taken a turn, at the end of a Day.
Find the monster tokens and create one 
stack for each different type of monster. 
You should have a total of 6 stacks. 
Place one stack in each jungle area, as shown.
Nexuses
Each team places their nexus figure in 
their nexus area.
Each team places their nexus token next to 
the number 9 of the hit points (HP) track.
Towers
Each team places 3 of their tower tokens in 
each lane, placed on the border dividing two 
areas, as shown. 
Each team places their minion tokens and 
figures next to the board, as a reserve. 
Minion tokens and figures are interchangeable.
Statuses 
Create a reserve of status tokens next to the board.
I
ITEMS and market 
Find the item cards and group them by the 
color of their banner and border. (You should 
have a total of 8 stacks.)
Shuffle each stack and place it face-up in the 
market as shown.
Players may NOT look at the cards underneath 
the topmost item card.

J
K.3
Heroes setup 
Each team chooses 4 different heroes following one of 
the suggested methods on page 16 (quick tip: one hero 
of each color forms well-rounded teams).
For your first game, use these heroes:
■	 Shadow team: Akimo, Miyuki, Kichie, and Yami. 
■	 Light team: Vorhild, Brylvar, Astryda, and Heraal.
For 3 or 4 player games, freely split these heroes 
amongst teammates.
Whenever you choose a hero:
1	 Place their sheet next to you, dark border face-up.
2	 Place their HP token next to the 9 of the HP track. 
Use the side of the token corresponding to your team.
3	 Place the hero figure in your friendly nexus area.
4	 Take the six cards with the hero image and set them 
aside for the next step.
Ultimates and discard piles
Each hero has one ultimate spell, represented by the 
card with the gold border and a "4" in the corner. 
Place all the ultimates of your heroes in a face-up stack 
next to you, forming your discard pile. (The order of the 
cards does not matter.)
Decks and draw 
Take all of your other hero cards (there should be 5 for 
each hero). Shuffle these cards to form your deck and 
place it face down next to the discard pile.
Each player draws 2 cards into their hand. In a 3-player 
game, the player without a teammate draws 4 cards 
instead.
Player aids 
Each player takes one player aid (it is double-sided). 
You are ready to play!
K
ONLY Ultimates 
have a gold 
border and A "4"
Player's Setup
Item colors explained
The color of an item's banner indicates 
its focus:
■ 	Red for damage.
■	 Yellow for speed.
■	 Blue for defense.
■	 Green for lane control.
Additionally, the color of an item's border 
indicates their rarity:
■	 Dark borders for common items, which 	
	
appear in multiple copies each 
■	 Bright border for unique items, which 	 	
	
have only one copy.

Goal of the game
The first team that destroys the enemy nexus wins. 
You have three ways to damage and destroy it:
■	 Siege it with your minions.
■	 Attack it with your heroes. 
■	 Cast spells targeting it.
In any case, you must first destroy the enemy towers 
that are blocking your access to the enemy nexus.
And to destroy the towers, you have the same three 
ways: you may siege, attack, or cast spells at them.
 
Flow of the game
Play a series of rounds until a team wins. 
Each round, up to two heroes—one from each team—
take their turn. 
A round has the following structure:
How to Play
Shop Phase
Skip the shop phase the first round of the game.
In this phase, teams shop in order of team priority.
To shop, purchase any number of items from the market 
by paying their cost, shown at the top of each card.
To purchase an item, place enough gold tokens of your 
team in the reserve and take change back as needed. 
After purchasing an item, place it next to any friendly 
hero’s sheet. That hero gains the item’s effect.
Each hero may have at most one item in each color. 
While shopping, you may discard items to make room, 
but they cannot be moved between heroes. To discard 
an item, place it at the bottom of the respective stack on 
the market.
9 gold 
cost
6 gold 
cost
Team priority
The team with priority is indicated by the Onward 
token and determines who shops and plans first. 
Priority changes whenever there is a tie for the 
fastest hero (see step 3 of the plan phase).
SHADOW 
TEAM
Light 
TEAM
Empty decks
If you would draw from an empty deck, shuffle 
your discard pile to form a new deck first.
Discard piles
Discard piles are face up; any player may examine 
them; the order of the cards in them doesn't matter.
Hand limit
At the end of your turn, if you have more than 7 
cards in hand, place any of them into your discard 
pile until you have 7.
Hero states
Heroes are in one of three possible states. You 
keep track of their state by rotating their sheet.
shop phase
jungling phase
plan phase
minion phase
slowest hero's turn
(From the other team.)
fastest hero's turn
(From one team.)
onward phase
Only happens if all heroes are 
exhausted or respawning.
round structure

a player with priority plans
The team with priority freely chooses a player on their 
team who has a ready hero. 
If your team does not have a ready hero, your team skips 
this step and will not take a hero's turn this round.
To plan:
1	 Draw 2 cards from your deck. 
2	 Choose 1 ready hero to plan with.
3	 Choose any 1 card from your hand to be your 
	
"plan card" for the round. 
	
Place it face down on the chosen hero's sheet. 
The plan determines how many MP and AP (movement 
and attack points) that hero may gain during their turn.
When planning, ignore the bottom part of the plan card 
and also its illustration because those are only relevant 
when using the card to cast it as a spell.
 
A PLAYER without priority plans
Repeat the step above for the team without priority. 
To maintain game flow, both players may draw their 2 
cards simultaneously.
 
Step 3 
Determine the fastest hero
Reveal all plan cards simultaneously.
The initiative of a hero is the number of MP on their plan 
(items and abilities may grant extra MP and initiative).
The hero with the highest initiative is the fastest and 
takes the first turn this round.
In case of tie, the team with priority breaks that tie and 
flips the Onward token to show a change of priority.
E.g. the hero to the left has a plan with 3 MP and will take 
a turn before the hero who has a 0 MP plan card.
4 MP
1 AP
ST
ND
Fallback plan?
At the start of your hero's turn, they become the active 
hero and you must choose whether to use:
■	 The normal plan on their plan card.
■	 Or, the fallback plan on that hero's sheet.
Then, the hero gains the MP and AP of the chosen plan.
The number of AP and MP available to a hero is not 
tracked with any component. Players must remember 
how many of those they have "spent" during their turn.
 
Take actions
The active hero may take any number of the actions 
below, in any order:
■	 MOVE: spend 1 MP to move to an adjacent area.
■ 	ATTACK: spend 1 AP to attack an enemy in range.
■	 PASS: discard the hero's plan card to end their turn.
Any friendly hero, and not just the active hero, may take 
any number of cast actions:
■ 	CAST: reveal any 1 card from your hand. Cast it as 	
	
a spell using the hero illustrated on the card. 
	
Then, discard the card.
In addition, heroes' abilities and items may grant more 
actions labeled as "Action:". Only the active hero may 
take those.
 
For example
A hero with 2 MP and 1 AP could take a turn in any one of 
these ways: 
- Attack, move, and move again; 
- Move, attack, and move again; 
- Move, move again, and attack. 
In-between these actions, that hero or even any other 
friendly hero may cast any number of spells.
FALLBACK PLAN
NORMAL PLAN
Plan Phase
Hero's Turn

To declare a move action, the active hero must:
■	 Spend 1 MP.
■	 Choose an adjacent area. (See Adjacency on pg. 12.)
To resolve it, place that hero's figure in the chosen area.
■	 There is no limit of units in any given area.
■	 The river is like any other area for movement purposes 
(I.e. it does not prevent heroes from moving in).
■	 Enemy towers prevent adjacency. (See pg. 12.)
E.g. The hero below may move to any one of the areas 
adjacent to them.
To declare an attack action, the active hero must:
■	 Spend 1 AP.
■	 Choose 1 
 target enemy unit in attack range. 
	
(
 Targeting is explained on pg. 12. 
	
Enemy units might be heroes, minions, monsters, 	
	
towers, nexus, or the outsider. See pg. 13.)
The attack range is indicated by the symbol on the hero's 
sheet (in the fallback plan) and can be melee or ranged.
■	 Melee heroes only attack in their own area.
■	 Ranged heroes ONLY attack in adjacent areas. 
Resolving an attack
To resolve an attack, reveal and discard the top card of 
your deck to determine the attack card. 
The number in the top right corner of the attack card 
is the strength of the attack. The strength is the DMG 
(damage, see pg. 12) dealt by the attack to the target.
If there is a "+" next to the number, reveal an additional 
attack card and sum the strength of all attack cards. 
This may lead to 2 or more attack cards being revealed.
E.g. The first attack card has 1 strength with a plus sign. 
The second card has 2 strength, for a total of 3 DMG. 
Multiple targets
If an effect allows the hero to target multiple enemies at 
once with an attack, follow the steps above only once for 
all targets, not separately for each.
Weak enemies
If an attack card with 2 strength is enough to defeat all 
targets, do not reveal any card when attacking. Instead, 
treat the attack as if a card with 2 strength was revealed.
This will often be the case with minions, monsters, and 
towers. (As they all have 1 Hit Point, or HP. See pg. 13.)
Move Action
Attack Action
The pass action is mandatory and it ends the hero's turn. 
To resolve a pass action take the following steps:
■	 Exhaust the active hero. 
■	 Discard their plan card and all their statuses.
■	 All heroes lose their unused AP and MP.
Reminder of the structure of a round: 
Pass Action
Declaring vs resolving actions
When explaining the actions, we distinguish 
between "declaring" and "resolving" them.
Unless an enemy casts a reactive spell, an action 
will resolve right after you declare it. 
In practice, this will be the case most of the time... 
But not always!
shop phase
jungling phase
plan phase
minion phase
slowest hero's turn
(From the other team.)
fastest hero's turn
(From one team.)
onward phase
Only happens if all heroes are 
exhausted or respawning.
round structure
RANGED
MELEE

To declare a cast action you must:
1	 Place one card from your hand face up in front of 	
	
 you. The effect at the bottom of it will resolve.
2	 Choose all the 
 targets. The hero illustrated on 	
	
 the card is the caster. All distances are measured 	
	
 relative to the caster.
3	 If the effect has an additional cost, the caster must 	
	
 pay it. (Most spells do not have it.)
4	 If the effect offers multiple options, you must choose 	
	
 them now. (Most spells do not offer options.) 
Resolving a spell
To resolve a cast action do what is written in the effect 
of the played card in the written order and as much as 
possible. Then, place the played card in your discard pile. 
Make sure to consult the reference page on the back of 
this rulebook to understand keywords and terms.
Free move and attack actions
Spells may let you "move" or "attack" with heroes. 
In these cases, follow the same rules of the respective 
actions, except:
■	 The caster does not have to pay any MP or AP.
■	 The caster does not have to be the active hero.
■	 Enemies cannot react to free actions.
special timing spells
Some spells can only be cast at specific moments—like 
during your Shop Phase. These are marked with the 
 symbol next to their name, and the exact timing is 
written on the card itself.
Important
Any friendly hero in play may cast spells during 
your turn, even exhausted ones! 
As long as you have cards left in hand, there is no 
limit to the number of spells you can cast.
Cast Action
Reactive Cast Action
When an enemy hero declares an action, at most one 
friendly hero may declare one reactive cast action in 
response.
If they do, their spell will resolve before the action they 
responded to.
Reactive cast actions may only be taken with reactive 
spells, identified by a lighting bolt 
 symbol.
Teams can declare multiple reactive cast actions in 
response to each other, as long as they alternate. 
(I.e. the same team cannot take two reactive cast 
actions in a row.)
If this happens, the cast actions will resolve in reverse 
order. (For an example, see pg. 15.)
Reactive spells, may also be cast as non-reactive spells, 
during friendly heroes' turns.
Missing targets
When an effect resolves, only 
 targets in range 
and sight will be affected (and you cannot change 
your targets after you declared them).
If the effect has additional requirements (e.g. the 
target must be in a jungle) all of those additional 
requirements must be met as well.
This is a general rule that applies to all effects 
that target: spells, abilities, attacks... Etc.
Attacks that miss all the targets resolve without 
effect and without revealing attack cards.
A common example
Every hero has a reactive spell called "Flash" that 
moves them to 1 target adjacent area.
When one of your heroes is targeted by an enemy, 
you may cast "Flash" to move out of range (or out 
of sight, into a jungle) and avoid the effect.
Reactive 
SPELL 
SYMBOL

After the fastest hero's turn, the minion phase begins. 
In this phase, push each lane in the order decided by the 
team with priority.
How to push a lane
If there are one or more minions in the lane, perform the 
following 3 steps. Otherwise, skip directly to step 3.
count momentum
The contested area is the area with minions in a lane. 
(There can be at most one contested area in each lane.)
■	 Each minion in the contested area contributes 
	
1 momentum to their team.
■	 Each hero in the contested area contributes 
	
1 momentum to their team.
Items and abilities may contribute extra momentum.
 
spend momentum
If a team has minions and more momentum than the 
enemy team they must spend the difference between 
their momentum and the enemy's momentum. 
The difference (and only the difference!) is spent to take 
actions with friendly minions, as explained below.
 
Step 3 
place minions
Each team places one friendly minion:
■	 In the area with minions. (I.e. the contested area.)
■	 Or, if there are no minions in the lane, in the area 	
	
marked with "M" instead.
Then, proceed to push the next lane.
Minion Phase
Often overlooked: retaliate
Nexus and towers have the Retaliate ability that 
is explained on page 12. In short: when minions 
assault towers or siege nexuses, those structures 
resolve an attack action (pg. 8) against one of the 
minions and, most likely, defeat one of them. 
If this attack action defeats the last of your 
pushing minions, any momentum left is lost.
Example> The first round
There are no minions anywhere. It does not matter 
whether there are heroes or not. 
When pushing each lane, you only do step 3, ending with 
one minion of each team in the areas marked with "M".
 
Example> Zero momentum push
Both teams have the same momentum (E.g. the same 
number of heroes and minions) in the contested area. 
The difference in momentum is zero. 
No team may spend momentum, each team places one 
friendly minion in the contested area.
 
Example: typical push
The Light team has 3 minions and 1 hero in the 
The Shadow team has only 1 minion instead. 
The difference is 3 momentum that is spent this way:
■	 1 momentum to assault and defeat the enemy minion.
■	 1 momentum to assault and destroy the enemy tower. 
	
The destroyed tower retaliates and defeats one of the	
	
pushing minions. (The light team could have decided 	
	
to assault this tower before the enemy minion in the 	
	
previous step.)
■	 1 momentum, to advance 1 area (because they cannot 	
	
assault or siege).
Then, each team places one friendly minion in the 
Before the push
After the push
Minion actions
Minions must assault whenever possible. 
If they cannot assault, they must try to siege. 
If they cannot siege, they must advance.
ASSAULT
Spend any amount of momentum to deal that 
same amount of DMG (damage) to one enemy 
hero, minion, or tower in the contested area.
SIEGE
Spend all remaining momentum to deal the same 
amount of DMG to the ADJACENT enemy nexus, 
ignoring its Tough ability.
ADVANCE
Spend 1 momentum to move all of your minions 
(and only your minions) into an adjacent lane area 
toward the enemy nexus.

Example: extreme push
The Light team has 6 minions and 2 heroes in the 
The Shadow team has only 1 minion instead. 
The difference is 7 momentum that is spent this way:
■	 1 momentum to assault and defeat the enemy minion.
■	 1 momentum to advance toward the enemy nexus 	
	
because they cannot assault or siege.
■	 2 momentum to assault and defeat an enemy hero 	
	
there, assuming it had only 2 HP left.
■	 1 momentum to assault and destroy the enemy tower 	
	
there. The destroyed tower retaliates and defeats one 	
	
pushing minion. 
	
(The light team could have decided to assault this 	
	
tower before the enemy hero in the previous step.)
■	 2 momentum, all that is left, to siege the nexus and 	
	
deal 2 DMG to it. 
The nexus has the Tough ability, meaning it cannot lose 
more than 1 HP at a time. But the Siege action explicitly 
ignores Tough, so the nexus will lose 2 HP. 
The nexus retaliates and defeats one pushing minion.
Finally, each team places one friendly minion in the area 
with minions.
Before the push
After the push
Each hero in an area with a monster defeats it.
When one of your heroes defeats a monster, flip the 
monster token on its other side and keep it in front of 
you to track the gold available to your team.
If there are heroes from opposing teams in the same 
area, the team with the most heroes in that area, defeats 
the monster. If tied, neither team defeats the monster.
Please note: 
■	 Monsters, like any other unit, may also be defeated 	
	
with spells and attacks. The jungling phase is another 	
	
way to defeat them. (For units, see pg. 13.)
■	 After the jungling phase, the slowest hero takes 
	
their turn.
Jungling Phase
Onward Phase
The Onward phase happens only if all heroes are 
exhausted or respawning (I.e. if there are no ready 
heroes.)
If they are, the Day ends. Follow these steps:
1	 Ready all exhausted heroes.
2	 Exhaust all respawning heroes.
3	 Advance the Onward token on the Day track.
At the end of the first Day, the outsider enters play:
■ Place the outsider figure in the river marked with O.
■ 	Place a stack of 4 outsider tokens in the HP track 
	
next to 5, either side face-up, it does not matter now. 
	
(The outsider is explained on pg.13.)
At the end of the fifth Day, the team whose nexus has 
most HP wins (or the team with priority, in case of tie).
For your reference, most games end around the third Day.

HP and DMG
Units in play have 1 or more HP (hit points). 
DMG (damage) reduces the unit's HP by the same 
amount, down to a minimum of zero.
As soon as a unit has zero HP, it is defeated and their 
token or figure is removed from the board, out of play. 
This happens immediately and interrupts any other 
effect that may still be resolving. 
A unit's starting HP is also their maximum HP.
 
Areas
Areas are where units stay in play. They are delimited by 
lines and there are four types of them: lane, jungle, river, 
and nexus (as indicated on pg. 3). 
Jungles are the only type of area with an associated rule 
that limits targeting. 
To avoid confusion: the river is not a jungle.
 
AdjacenCY
Two areas are adjacent if they share one edge marked 
by a pair of triangles (highlighted in the images below).
Towers prevent adjacency for enemies. 
If there is a tower on the edge between two areas, 
enemies no longer consider those areas adjacent. 
Longer Distances
A distance may be expressed as a number of areas. 
For example, the image below indicates the distance 
between areas relative to the area marked with the 0 
(E.g. Areas 0,1, and 2 are "within 2 areas" of area 0).
When determining distances, consider only the shortest 
path, and remember that the Barrier ability of enemy 
towers prevents adjacency.
 
Status effects
Status effects apply only to heroes and maximum one of 
each type per hero. 
When a hero gains a status, place the corresponding 
token on that hero's sheet.
The effect of each type of status is explained in the 
reference page on the back of this rulebook.
When a hero ends their turn or is defeated, remove all 
their statuses.
 Targeting
The target symbol (
) identifies the targets you 
must choose when declaring an action. 
When the action resolves, your hero may miss the 
targets (see sidebar on pg. 9).
Targeting in jungles
To target an enemy in a jungle area, there must be 
a friendly hero in the same area as the target.
I.e. to target an enemy in a jungle, you need a 
friendly hero in that jungle to "spot" the enemy.
If your hero is in the same jungle area as the 
target, no additional "spotter" is required.
You can always target:
■	 Friendly heroes in jungles.
■	 Jungle areas themselves. 
	
(Some spells target areas.)
If a word is not preceded by the 
 symbol, it is 
not targeting, and this rule does not apply.
Retaliate
When a unit with Retaliate is dealt damage, their 
controller resolves an attack action against the 
damage dealer (see attack action on pg. 8).
In the case of units not controlled by any player 
(e.g. outsider) the opponent reveals the attack 
card(s) to determine the DMG dealt.
If "Retaliate" is followed by a status or effect, 
apply that status or effect instead of attacking. 
Retaliate happens even if the retaliating unit is 
defeated and as soon as the action (or effect) 
that dealt DMG is fully resolved.
Fine print: 
■	 A Retaliate attack prevents other Retaliate effects.
■	 A unit may have multiple different Retaliate abilities.
■	 The retaliate attack ignores the jungle targeting 	
	
limitation and is always within range. Once triggered, 	
	
it resolves even if the unit with Retaliate gains Silence.
■	 Retaliate happens even if armor prevents all the DMG.
■	 You cannot cast in reaction to Retaliate.
■	 For timing details, see "Triggered effects" on pg 15.
Key Concepts

Heroes
All heroes start with 9 HP (hit points). 
Hero sheets have these elements:
1	 Fallback plan (pg. 7) and attack range (pg. 8).
2	 Ability that applies whenever possible.
3	 Name, faction symbol, and class (pg. 16).
Defeated heroes
When a friendly hero is defeated, follow these steps:
1	 If they are the active hero, they must immediately 	
	
resolve a pass action to end their turn. 
	
I.e. This will cause the hero to become exhausted.
2	 Then, regardless of whether they were the active 
	
hero or not, rotate their hero sheet 90° clockwise to 	
	
change their state. 
	
I.e. If they were ready, they are now exhausted. 
	
If they were exhausted, they are now respawning. 
	
No matter what, they will skip their next turn.
3	 Place their HP token and figure on their sheet and 	
	
remove all their statuses. The hero is out of play and 	
	
they cannot take actions, use items, or abilities.
4	 Level up the enemy hero that defeated yours. 
	
If that hero is already leveled up or does not exist 	
	
(E.g. burn status, tower or outsider retaliate) the 	
	
enemy team levels up one hero of their choice.	
Leveling up heroes
To level up a hero, follow these steps:
■	 Flip over their sheet.
■	 Heal 2 HP to them.
respawning heroes
Defeated heroes will eventually return to the ready state. 
During the Onward phase, respawning heroes become 
exhausted, and exhausted heroes become ready. 
When you plan with a hero that is out of play, they enter 
play again: place their figure in their nexus area and set 
their HP to 9.
Starting side
Leveled up side
Nexuses
Nexuses start at 9 HP and cannot be healed. 
When the enemy nexus is destroyed, your team wins! 
Nexuses have the "Retaliate" and the "Tough" abilities. 
Tough means they can lose at most 1 HP at a time.
Towers
Towers have 1 HP and stay in play in two areas at once, 
on the border between those two areas. 
Towers have the "Retaliate" and the "Barrier" abilities. 
Barrier prevents adjacency for enemies (see pg. 12).
Minions have 1 HP. Minions in each lane will always be 
in the same area, known as the contested area. If you 
run out of minion tokens, use a substitute piece instead. 
There is no maximum limit to the number of minions. 
Minion tokens and figures are interchangeable.
Monsters have 1 HP and may be in play on top of a stack 
of other monster tokens. Only the topmost monster of a 
stack is in play. Monsters do not respawn. 
When one of your heroes defeats a monster, flip the 
monster token on its other side and keep it in front of 
you to track the gold available to your team.
Outsider
The outsider has 4 lives with 5 HP each. 
You track both its lives and its HP with a stack of 
outsider tokens. The number of tokens in the stack 
indicates its lives, the position of the stack on the HP 
track indicates the HP of its current life.
When one of your heroes defeats one life of the outsider, 
follow the instructions written on its sheet. (It will grant a 
game-changing boon to the team that defeated it!)
Reminder: the outsider enters play at the end of the first 
day. (See Onward phase on pg 11.) 
Starting side
Tamed side
NEXUS
Heroes
TOWERS
Units
Outsider
5 HP
You are ready to play
You may look for tips to get started on the next page. 

Extended Overview
Tips To Get Started
The big picture
In Onward there is only one goal but many ways to 
achieve it in practice. 
You have to decide how to divide your focus between:
■	 Defeating monsters to get items.
■	 Defeating minions and towers to push the lanes.
■	 Defeat heroes to level up and "gain" extra turns.
For your first game, it is safer to do a bit of everything as 
you learn what heroes' spells and abilities can do.
Your first turn
If you plan with a ranged hero and it is the fastest hero, 
your only valid target to attack will be an enemy tower in 
the lane because, most likely, all other targets will be out 
of range or hidden in jungles. 
Bear in mind, the fallback plan will always be enough 
to move and attack an enemy tower (remember: it 
retaliates).
If you plan with a ranged hero and it is NOT the fastest 
hero, enemy minions (and maybe even a hero) will be 
within attack range and are both valid targets, depending 
on your strategy.
If you plan with a melee hero, the fallback plan will 
always be enough to enter a jungle and defeat a monster 
there. 
Then, if it is the fastest hero, you will also immediately 
defeat another monster just by ending the turn there 
(see Jungling phase).
Often overlooked
These are some rules specifically about the attack 
action that are often overlooked during the first game:
■	 Ranged heroes cannot attack enemies in their area 
but ONLY enemies in adjacent areas.
■	 Enemies in a jungle cannot be targeted unless there is 
a friendly hero there (pg. 12). This include monsters.
■	 The attack range of a hero is always the one on their 
fallback plan, even if they do not use the fallback but a 
normal plan (the normal plan shows both the melee and 
ranged symbols and might be confusing).
Heroes are the protagonists. Each player controls two or 
more of them. They move, attack, use their abilities, and 
level up when they defeat enemy heroes.
The goal of the game is to destroy the enemy nexus.
Nexuses are portals in the corner of the map.
Lanes are corridors connecting the two nexuses and are 
populated with towers and minions from both teams.
Towers are defensive structures preventing enemy 
heroes and minions from rushing into the nexus.
Minions are mindless, weak units that become more 
dangerous when grouped together. They always try to 
advance toward the enemy nexus attacking any enemy 
in their way.
Jungles are areas between lanes where heroes can 
defeat monsters to earn gold, which they use to buy 
powerful items and grow stronger.
The river is a central area where your heroes can battle 
the colossal outsider monster. 
Whoever defeats it, gains a game-changing boon!

Clarifications
If you are uncertain of a rule, check these clarifications, 
your best judgment, or look for some help online!
At www.playskytear.com you will find errata and 
clarifications as well as a link to our Discord server 
where you may ask questions directly to the designers.
General rules
■	 If a card effect conflicts with the rules in this rulebook, 	
	
the effect on the card takes precedence.
■	 If there is a tie for distance, the player who is 	
	
 resolving the effect decides. If that player is not 		
	
defined, the team with priority decides.
Multiple reactive cast
Multiple reactive cast actions can be declared in 
response to each other, as long as teams alternate 
declaring them (i.e. you can only declare a single 
reactive cast action after an opponent declares an 
action).
If multiple reactive cast actions are declared in response 
to each other, they will resolve in reverse order. 
In other words, the last spell cast resolves first while the 
first spell cast resolves last. 
Tip: when three or more reactive spells are cast, stacking 
the cards in reverse order can help track their order of 
resolution.
Example
1. Your hero declares an attack targeting an enemy hero. 
2. In response, the enemy declares a reactive cast action 
with Flash. They target an adjacent area. 
3. In response, your hero declares a reactive cast action 
with Flash... Targeting the same area targeted by the 
enemy's flash! 
4. The enemy does not have a response, so all actions 
will now resolve in reverse order. 
Starting with the last card played, your Flash resolves 
moving your hero to an adjacent area. 
5. Then, the enemy Flash resolves, and they cannot 
change the target they previously declared, so they move 
to the same area. 
6. Your attack finally resolves hitting the target!
Triggered effects ('when')
Some spells, abilities, and items include the word "when," 
indicating that they create triggered effects.
Triggered effects resolve immediately after the action 
(or triggered effect) that caused them has fully resolved. 
If multiple triggered effects would resolve at the same 
time, they instead resolve in the following order:
■	 All effects controlled by the team with the active hero 	
	
(or the team with priority if there is no active hero).
■	 Then, all effects controlled by the other team.
■	 Then, all other effects simultaneously (E.g. the 	 	
	
Outsider retaliate attack).
Each player chooses the order in which their own 
triggered effects resolve.
If a unit with a triggered effect about to resolve is 
defeated, that effect does not resolve. (The Retaliate 
ability is the only exception to this.) 
 
Replacement effects
Some effects replace other effects. These are often 
worded like: "If THIS would happen, do THAT instead." 
Armor is the most common example of this: if a unit 
with 1 armor would take 3 DMG, they only take 2 DMG 
instead.
For example, Miyuki's ultimate spell reads: "If 1 outsider 
or friendly hero within 3 areas would be defeated this 
turn, set their HP to 5 instead."
If multiple replacement effects would resolve at the 
same time, they instead resolve in this order:
■	 All effects controlled by the team with the active hero 	
	
(or the team with priority if there is no active hero).
■	 Then, all effects controlled by the other team.
■	 Then, all other effects in the order decided by the team 
	
with priority. (E.g. replacement effects from monsters 
	
and outsiders.)
If, when it is time to resolve it, a replacement effect does 
not have anything to replace, it will not resolve anymore.

Choosing Heroes
First, choose one, both, or none of the restrictions below.
Then, choose one drafting method below, they are listed 
in order of increasing complexity.
If you cannot agree, use the first restriction (one per 
color) and the first drafting method (all random!).
Restriction 1: one per color
Teams must include one hero of each color. This is also 
the golden rule to have well-rounded teams (although 
you may play without this restriction, if you know what 
you are doing!).
Restriction 2: faction-based
This restriction makes drafting less overwhelming and 
more thematic. 
The Shadow team chooses one faction and then, the 
Light team chooses another faction. 
Teams may only use heroes from the chosen factions.
Method 1: all random
Draw heroes at random, respecting the chosen 
restrictions, if any!
Method 2: snake draft
One player in the Shadow team makes the first pick, 
choosing just one hero from the available pool.
Then, teams alternate choosing two heroes each until 
the Shadow team makes the last pick, choosing just one 
hero.
Method 3: Moba draft
Like the snake draft but with two ban steps. 
In the ban step, each team, starting with the shadow 
team, removes one hero from the drafting pool.
Take a ban step before starting the draft and as soon as 
both teams have chosen two heroes each.
The color of the banner on hero's sheet indicates the 
aspect of the game the hero specializes in.
The colors have the same meaning used by items:
■	 Red heroes favor damage and... More damage!
■	 Blue heroes favor defense and survivability.
■	 Green heroes favor momentum and minions.
■	 Yellow heroes favor speed and versatility.
Classes
The class of a hero is written next to its name on their 
sheet. It is just a hidden layer without any rules.
Heroes belong to one of these classes: 
■	 Slayers
Slayers seize the initiative and are able to one-shot 
enemy heroes with their attacks.
■	 Marksmen
Marksmen are unbeatable damage dealers at long 
range, especially once they level up or equip damage-
boosting (red) items.
■	 Tanks
Tanks keep friendly heroes alive by shielding them or 
disrupting enemy attacks and moves.
■	 Controllers
Controllers influence the battlefield dealing negative 
statuses and healing friendly heroes.
■	 Mages
Mages are the best at clearing waves of minions all at 
once with area of effect spells.
■	 Laners
Laners push toward the enemy nexus like no others... 
Spawning and supporting minions.
■	 Junglers
Junglers earn gold faster than any other hero but also 
take actions outside of their turn... Unexpectedly!
■	 Warriors excel at team fights, displacing and 
disrupting enemies; the most well-rounded class.
Factions
The faction of a hero is identified by the symbol next to 
its name: 
Kurumo, 
Liothan, 
Taulot, 
Nupten.
The faction has no associated rules, it just implies some 
thematic and gameplay differences and it is used to 
structure the expansions and facilitate the draft.
Heroes Overview

Level up your experience
Two-lane map set up
Legendary expansion
Take the same steps on page 4 with only one difference: 
for two-player games, we suggest to play with only three 
heroes per team instead of the usual four. 
The game works regardless, but we believe having 
one less hero here makes for a much more distinct 
experience compared to the three-lane map.
This expansion adds legendary monsters and items, as 
well as a new alternate outsider.
It features a new type of card with a legendary monster 
on one side and a legendary item on its other side.
There are 3 copies of each legendary monster card, with 
the same "front" but with different items on their back.
At the end of the first day, draw one legendary monster 
card at random and place:
■	 The monster card next to the board.
■	 The monster HP token on 5.
■	 The monster figure in the river area without the "O" 	
	
symbol (i.e. not where the outsider enters play).
The team who defeats that monster may choose one of 
the three legendary items connected to that monster and 
equip it to a friendly hero of their choice. 
At www.playskytear.com we offer free shipping (above 
certain thresholds) and have warehouses in multiple 
regions of the world.
If you want more heroes, the Taulot and Nupten 
expansions bring you 16 new heroes to grow your pool.
Unlike the Legendary Expansion, these do not introduce 
new rules but just different gameplay styles!
 
Upgrade your components
Replace all the figures in Onward with detailed 
miniatures for a stunning table presence. 
For the ultimate experience, you may also replace all 
tokens with clinky poker-like chips and the game board 
with a neoprene playmat.

The Lore
War. War. War. The drums echoed with it, armored feet 
pressed it into the stone, even the Nexus roared out the 
word in a heavy, dull, drone. Akimo knew it was waiting for 
him. Rank by rank, it had taken his comrades, swallowed 
them whole, and spat them out on Ahasa, a fortress far 
away. Now, it was his turn to face the Nexus. 
His sword stirred in his hand. Something within wanted 
blood, more blood. Akimo almost cursed. There would 
never be enough split. Stepping forward, he was just a 
few inches away from the swirling lights. It smelt like 
copper and salt and charge, like a storm before it breaks, 
like the forge, like fire. The light reached out to embrace 
him, and when it took him he didn’t know if it pulled him 
into the portal, or if he had stepped forward himself.
Akimo emerged into Ahasa. His sword pulled him 
forward, eager. He had been told the fortress was built 
into a column of rock, and had imagined something like 
a hill. He realized now he was wrong. Far below him, the 
very tops of the trees were dwarfed by a flat, natural, 
wall of granite, sheer rock face rising hundreds of feet 
towards him. There was nowhere to run. Not for anyone. 
Beside him, something stirred. He turned to see red light 
streaming into a broken suit of armor resting against 
the Nexus. All at once the suit stood up. Or rather, it was 
pulled up by the fire burning inside its empty helmet, a 
metal puppet for whatever was in the helmet. Hogosai. 
Brother. They had fought together one hundred times, 
both witnessed each other fall. Kurumo would not allow 
either of them to stay dead.
As the light faded, the first thing she felt was the heat. 
Vorhild was used to sudden changes in temperature: she 
had traveled into the depths of Xotlan and prowled frozen 
castles back home . But it was never like this, hot and wet 
and thick, like the air was filled with boiling water. Next 
came the sound, reaching into the writhing portal: metal 
on metal, shouts, and the heavy thrum of Skytear. When 
at last the swirling light granted her vision back, she could 
see a battlefield bigger than any she had seen before.
They were high up. The wind whipped her hair, her cape. 
The ermines on her shoulder chirped, cautious. Afraid. 
She felt their heart beat alongside hers, but she had no 
fear: she was a hunter, with her bow at the ready. Three 
lanes of combat, but the ruin was the heart of the battle. 
If she could pierce it, the enemy Nexus would surely fall. 
Between the lanes were overgrown gardens, thick tropical 
plants conquering neat flowerbeds. They would hide her 
until she was ready. 
Then, she dashed forward.
It was up to him now. Power burned through his body, 
then he became the power, and his body was just a dream 
of the flame. Fire circled the ruined courtyard, stopping 
anyone entering. This is where he would make his stand. 
It was up to her now. From atop the ruin, perched 
alongside her ermines, she could see a young Kaenite 
man, hair braided, surrounded by a wall of fire. He wasn’t 
expecting an attack from above. She dived, and, as 
she did, Skytear from her totem surrounded her, a blue 
whirlwind of power. He saw her. The fire turned to face 
her. Liothan’s power would protect her. 
They fought, with Skytear and blade and bow and foot. 
The battlefield was theirs. But in the rage, in the crashing 
of weapons and opposing magic, something was 
waking up. As red and blue clashed in a vestige of glory, 
something so much larger than either of them opened its 
eyes, filled with rage and anguish.
This story is an introduction to Olan Taa, the 
world where Onward and many of our games 
take place. Online resources, hardcover lore and 
art books, as well as a role-playing manual are 
available at www.playskytear.com

The world of Olan Taa is trampled by a tearing war 
that has been lasting for years. Hiding behind false 
justifications like the glory of their divinities or the 
salvation of their people, the four Realms which have 
descended into the battle have followed their greed only, 
eager to accumulate more power than the others —an 
arcane power called Skytear.
Whoever masters Skytear, masters the matter, the magic, 
the life. Everything. The only way to win this rush is to 
erect magic portals which absorb this arcane energy, the 
Nexus. Consequently, destroying enemy Nexuses will 
grant absolute control over the land.
Everyone wants to prevail by any means necessary: 
alliances, betrayals, assassinations and rebellions have 
transformed Olan Taa and its inhabitants. The final 
chapters of this conflict will be fought by mixed armies 
led by the former champions of each Realm. 
Many of them were adversaries in the past, now united 
under common interests, or once brothers in arm, put 
one against the other by a higher plan. 
Skytear unites, Skytear divides.
Publisher: Skytear Games (PVP GEEKS SRL) 
Via Cesare Costa 19/D, Modena, 41125, Italy.
Design: Giacomo Neri and Riccardo Neri. 
Production: Riccardo Parmeggiani. 
Development support: Eric Wainright, Francesco 
Desideri. 
Graphic design: Akibaza Studio, Gong Studio, 
Janette Ramos. 
Logo design: Cold Castle Studio. 
Card artworks: Vlad Botos, Kyle Cox, Douglas 
Deri, John Ric Detoon, Marko Fiedler, Gong Studio, 
Jack Kaiser, Jerry Padilla, Alba Palacio, Simon 
Pape. 
Cover artwork: Johanna Rupprecht. 
Miniatures sculpt: Rafael Dioli, Rakib Hasan, 
Francesco Orrù, Mattia Tomaselli.
Lore: Thomas Foster, Riccardo Parmeggiani. 
Rulebook advisors: Brendan Irvin, Paul Grogan.
Playtesting and proofreading: Bronce Adam, 
Christopher Weidinger, Gary L. Amoe, Joseph 
McCain, Lorenzo Bonettini, QuasiStellar, Rob 
Giobbe.
Last but not least, all the players that supported 
the crowdfunding campaign!
Check our other games at www.playskytear.com.
The game we released before Onward is Skytear Horde, 
a card-battler that gives you the feeling of the classic 
trading card games... Except it is solo or co-operative!
Other Games, Same Universe

Reference Page
ADJACENT. Two areas are adjacent if they share 
one edge marked by a pair of triangles. Units in adjacent 
areas are adjacent units. A unit is not adjacent to itself.
AP. Attack point (pg. 8).
Attach. Place the spell next to the attached hero's 
sheet and apply its effect until discarded.
ARMOR. Each time a unit with armor would take 
DMG, prevent a number of damage equal to its armor.
(I.e. armor does not get consumed, it works each time.) 
Some armor only applies against certain types of effects. Do not 
count this situational armor when resolving effects that scale 
based on armor value.
Barrier. Prevent adjacency for enemies.
Contested area. Area with minions.
DISPLACE. Place the displaced hero in an area 
adjacent to them. When considering adjacency, 
disregard the Barrier ability. (Only applies to heroes.)
DMG. Damage. See page 12.
Enemy. Units NOT on your team.
Enter. "On enter" effects trigger whenever the units 
enter the area, no matter how (move, displace, pull, etc).
Friendly. Units on your team.
HEAL. Increase the unit's HP up to their starting HP. 
Nexuses cannot be healed.
HP. Hit points. See page 12.
leave. "On leave" effects trigger whenever the units 
leave the area, no matter how (move, displace, pull, etc).
MOMENTUM. Each minion in the contested area 
contributes 1 momentum to their team. Each hero there 
also contributes 1 momentum to their team (pg. 10).
Mp. Movement point (pg. 8).
NEARBY. Includes adjacent areas AND the area 
where you are measuring from. Nearby units are units in 
nearby areas (I.e. "nearby heroes" include the hero itself).
PIERCING DMG. Ignore target armor.
PULL. Place the pulled hero in the same area of the 
unit that is pulling. (Only applies to heroes.)
RETALIATE. See page 12.
Initiative. The number of MP on the plan, plus any 
additional MP or initiative bonuses (pg. 7).
Minions, towers, monsters
Outsider (4 lives)
Heroes & nexuses
1 hp
5 HP
STRENGTH. The DMG dealt by an attack, down to a 
minimum of 0. By default, it is 0 and it is increased with 
the attack card, items, abilities... Etc.
TELEPORT. Place the unit in the indicated area. 
A unit is only considered teleported if it changes area.
Tough. If a unit with Tough (e.g. the nexus) would 
lose 2 or more HP, they only lose 1 HP instead. When 
minions siege a nexus they ignore its Tough ability.
Unit. Anything with HP (pg. 13).
Within. See "Longer Distances" on page 12.
Statuses
When a hero ends their turn or is defeated, 
remove all their statuses.
BURN 
Deal 1 piercing DMG to the hero when they 
finish resolving an attack or cast action. 
Resolve those actions in full first. Burn applies 
also when "attacking" or "casting" using spells.
Disarm
Do not reveal/discard attack cards. 
Attacks have a base strength of 1 instead, 
and ignore all positive strength modifiers.
Freeze
The hero must spend 1 additional MP to 
declare a move action. 
If a hero is frozen after declaring the action, but 
before resolving it, freeze has no effect. Freeze 
has no effect on free move actions from spells.
Silence
Prevent the ability on the hero's sheet, on all 
friendly spell cards attached to them. Also 
prevent any temporary, delayed, or triggered 
effects granted by friendly spells.
STUN 
The hero has -2 initiative.