Monastic Economy in the Middle Ages
A strategic game for 1 to 4 players aged 13 and up, 
by Uwe Rosenberg
The Detailed Game Rules
These rules apply mostly to the three and four player game. Special rules for the short, 
two player and solo games are included at the end (see pages 7 and 8).
Game Idea
Ora et Labora is a game about monastic economy during the Middle Ages. 
There is prayer. But mostly, there is hard work – both within the cloister 
walls as well as outside them. 
The players are cloister heads and send their clergymen (the prior along with 
two lay brothers) to buildings in which they produce goods. 
How many goods are produced is indicated by the production wheel. 
The players also send their clergymen to buildings that upgrade their goods. 
To start, players have only their heartland, a small 2x5 space landscape 
with moors and forests that can be expanded with later purchases. 
In total, the game is interrupted ﬁve times for a settlement 
phase. Players use them to add settlements to their landscape 
such that they gain as many points as possible for them by 
being next to buildings with high dwelling values. 
Buildings and settlements can, for the most part, be built on 
any empty landscape spaces. The most important exception 
are the cloister buildings (distinguishable by their yellow colored title 
and symbol boxes). Cloister buildings must be adjacent to other cloister 
buildings, such that a cloister of ever-increasing size is created. (In the 
example to our right, the Cloister Chapter House is adjacent to the 
Cloister Ofﬁce.) 
Ora et Labora can be played in either a France or an Ireland 
variant. Depending on which variant the players choose, turn all 
building cards in the game to their appropriate sides. 
Game Components
in cardboard frames: 
 
2 game boards, only one of which is used each game
 
2 identical production wheels to indicate production amounts, 
also only one of which is used each game
 
4 heartland landscapes (one for each player) 
 
9 district landscapes (sorted according to cost: 2, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6, 7, 8 coins)
 
9 plot landscapes (sorted according to cost: 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 7 coins)
450 goods tiles:
 40 “peat“ tiles with “peat coal“ on their reverse sides 
 40 “livestock“ tiles with “meat“ on their reverse sides
 45 “grain“ tiles with “straw“ on their reverse sides
 45 “wood“ tiles (with “whiskey“ on their reverse sides 
 only used in the Ireland variant)
 55 “clay“ tiles with “ceramic“ on their reverse sides 
 45 “1 coin“ tiles with “book“ on their reverse sides
 30 “5 coins“ tiles with “reliquary“ on their reverse sides
 40 “stone“ tiles with “ornament“ on their reverse sides
 30 “grapes“ tiles with “wine“ on their reverse sides (only in the France variant)
 30 “ﬂour“ tiles with “bread“ on their reverse sides (only in the France variant)
 40 “malt“ tiles with “beer“ on their reverse sides (only in the Ireland variant)
 
8 “Wonder” tiles with “5x“ markers on their reverse sides
 
2 starting player markers (for the three and four player game, 
one each for France and Ireland)
These rules outline the game in a traditionally 
structured and detailed manner. They are well 
suited to looking up rules questions that may 
arise and to verify that everything has been 
played correctly. If you want a more narrative 
introduction to the game, then please refer to 
the other ruleset!
Important! 
Read the 
Game Setup 
Sheet ﬁrst!
110 cards:
 41 double-sided building cards (with France on one side and Ireland 
on the other)
 32 settlement cards (a set of 8 different settlements for each player) 
 37 forest cards with moor on their reverse sides
wooden components:
 
3 clergymen in each of four colors (each 2x lay brother and 1x prior)
 
9 goods indicators in different shapes and colors
 
1 house-shaped, turquoise building marker to indicate 
the next settlement phase
additionally: 
 
2 pins to attach the production wheels to the game boards
 
1 game setup sheet
 
1 4-page general rules 
 this 8-page detailed rulebook
 
1 12-page glossary of all buildings and settlements along 
with game hints and summaries
 
4 play summaries (action options, goods and building types on front side, 
buildings on back side)
 
1 scoring pad
 15 plastic bags
Farmyar
The Farmyard 
provides 
livestock or 
grain. 
At the moment, 
3 livestock would 
be produced.
Expanding above and below 
with districts provides you 
with additional forest and 
moor spaces. Buying a coastal 
plot expands your landscape 
to the left. Mountain plots 
are added to the right. In this 
manner, each player develops 
a picturesque landscape that 
spans from the coast across 
the plains to the mountains.
Chapter House
Town
Hillside, 
Castle
build 1 of your 
own settlement
ur 
ment
Dwelling values are 
indicated by this 
symbol 
.
Settlements are 
identiﬁed with this 
symbol . 
Cloister buildings have 
a banner of this color 
behind their name.
Plains,
ide
Clo
Chapter
dwelling va
the end of th
ue at 
e game

Gameplay
Determine who will receive the starting player marker in the ﬁrst round. Give that player 
either the French or Irish starting player marker (the starting player marker for the other 
variant is not used). Turn the starting player marker over so that the side with 
1 coin is showing. The starting player marker rotates clockwise each round.
Course of a Round
In a three or four player game, the game is played in rounds with changing starting players. 
A round consists of ﬁve phases, each of which is played through in order. 
1) At the start of each round, all players check to see if they have all three of their 
clergymen on buildings. Those that do get them back. 
• If you have only used 1 or 2 clergymen then you do not get them back. 
• You must take your clergymen back. 
2) Thereafter, rotate the production wheel one position in the direction 
 of the arrow illustrated on it (i.e. counterclockwise). 
 The goods indicators indicate production levels. Production levels increase 
through the rotation of the production wheel. 
• Before rotating the production wheel, use the checking number to ensure that the 
correct player is the starting player. How this is done is explained in more detail on 
page 6.
• Should a goods indicator be located on the last space (space 10) before the wheel 
is rotated, then it is pushed forward by the wheel beam. (In other words, the goods 
indicator stays on space 10).
• In round 8, the grapes goods indicator enters the game (only in the France variant) and 
in round 13 the stone goods indicator enters the game. The new goods indicators get 
pushed onto space 0 of the production wheel. 
3) Should the beam push the building marker forward and hence past the next pile of 
buildings and settlements (the A cards come into the game ﬁrst, followed by the B, C and 
D cards), then the game is temporarily interrupted by a settlement phase (see page 5). 
4) Each player, in clockwise order, then gets to carry out one action. 
At the end of the round, the starting player gets to carry out a second action. 
• So a round in the three player game consists of 4 actions while a four player 
game round consists of 5 actions. 
5) At the end of the round, pass the starting player marker to the next player in 
clockwise direction. 
The Action Options
Phase 4 of a round is the action phase. You have three options for this action. 
• You can place one of your own clergymen (prior or lay brother) or issue a work contract 
to another player: In that case, the other player must place one of his own clergymen. 
• You can fell trees or cut peat and take the corresponding production amount. 
• You can build a building. 
Action Place a clergyman in order to use a building 
You can either place one of your own clergymen (a lay brother or the prior) or request that 
one of your opponents place one of their clergymen.
If you place one of your own clergymen, then you place it into one of your own, unoccupied 
buildings and use the building’s function. 
The clergymen: 
1 prior and 2 lay brothers
The arrow indicates 
the rotation direction: 
counterclockwise.
The starting player 
markers: 
French (red) and 
Irish (green).
The rotation has the 
effect that now 3 grain 
instead of 2 can be 
produced, as well as 
4 livestock instead 
of 3.
The ﬁrst settlement 
phase begins.
It is possible to combine the “build a building“ action 
with the “place a clergyman“ action. You will need your 
prior for this (see page 4, “The effect of the prior when 
building“). 
 Placing a clergyman
• Should a player have placed all three of his clergymen over the course of a round, then his buildings cannot 
be used again until the end of the round. (Clergymen are only removed at the start of a round. See phase 1 
of a round.) Exception: The Priory and Palace/Grand Manor provide alternative ways of using buildings (see 
glossary).
• Building functions are only triggered by placement, not by just being in a building. 
• You can place a clergyman on a building without using its function.
• You can only use buildings that have been placed onto landscape spaces. Buildings next to the game board 
may not be directly used.
These rules do not refer to 
the individual functions of 
each building. Should the 
function of a building not be 
clear, please refer to its entry 
in the glossary outlining all 
of the buildings.
Cloiste
Offic
Function box
The checking 
numbers
The fact that a round’s start player gets two 
turns in the round effectively means that 
Ora et Labora is played in clockwise order. 
Players take turns carrying out actions, 
interrupted only by rotating the production 
wheel and the related settlement phases.

Work contracts
If you want to use one of an opponent’s buildings, then you must pay him 1 coin 
and, by doing so, issue a work contract: The other player must choose one of his own 
available clergymen and place it on the chosen building. 
As soon as one player builds the Winery (in the France variant) or the Whiskey 
Distillery (in the Ireland variant), then the price for work contracts increases from 
1 coin to 2 coins for all players. (This price increase is in effect until the end of the 
game and is indicated by ﬂipping the starting player marker over to its reverse side.)
Presents for the host – The value of wine and whiskey for work contracts 
From the start of the game on, you may choose not to pay coins to use another player’s 
buildings. Instead, you can return 1 wine (in the France variant) or 1 whiskey (in the 
Ireland variant) back to the general supply; the owner of the building being used gets 
nothing (as the present is opened and drunk). (Wine is produced in the Winery and 
Whiskey is produced in the Whiskey Distillery.)
The production wheel
The production wheel is the central game element in Ora et Labora. 
The players produce goods. How many goods of a particular type they produce 
is indicated by the production wheel. At the start of each round, rotate it one 
space counterclockwise (Phase 2 of a round). In this manner, nearly all goods 
production is increased at once. 
Each time a goods is produced, move its corresponding goods indicator back to 
the 0 space. (Because of the relatively slow rotation of the production wheel, 
it will take a few rounds before this good will be interesting again.) 
Using the joker
Whenever you carry out an action that uses the production wheel, you can 
choose to use the joker instead of the regular goods indicator. (Buildings that use 
the production wheel all have a game board outline in their function boxes.) 
You are allowed to use the joker indicator for a goods type whose normal goods 
indicator is not in the game yet (see Example 2). This rule affects stone as well as 
grapes in the France variant. 
Action Fell trees
Remove (maximum) 1 forest card from your landscapes. The production wheel 
indicates how many wood goods tiles you take from the general supply. Move 
the wood goods indicator to the 0 space of the production wheel. 
Action Cut peat
Remove (maximum) 1 moor card from your landscapes. The 
production wheel indicates how many peat goods tiles you take 
from the general supply. Move the peat goods indicator to the 
0 space of the production wheel.
Work contracts
• When you want to use one of an opponent’s buildings, then 
your opponent gets to choose if he wants to use his prior or 
one of his lay brothers for the action. 
• You cannot issue a work contract to a player who has already 
placed all of his clergymen.
• A work contract cannot be refused. 
• You must pay the price for the work contract immediately. (You cannot wait 
to receive the building’s beneﬁt ﬁrst.) 
• You are allowed to issue a work contract without actually using the building’s 
function.
Goods tiles have a total of four types of icons on them: 
 is for food, 
 is the symbol for energy, 
 is for money and 
 is for points. 
Every goods and their symbols can be found on the summary.
Using forest and moor cards
• Important! Felling trees or cutting 
peat does not use a clergyman. 
• You cannot use other players’ forest or moor cards. 
• You are allowed to remove a forest or moor card even when the 
wood or peat goods indicator is at 0, although you will not receive 
any goods. (This still costs an action.) 
• Once you run out of forest or moor cards, you can still carry out 
the “Felling trees“ or “Cutting peat“ actions, although you won’t 
receive any goods. You also do not adjust the goods indicators.
• You can use the joker indicator to get wood or peat.
• Removing forest or moor cards results in empty landscape spaces 
that can be built on later (see next section, “Build a building“). 
Example 1: The player places a lay brother on the Clay Mound. 
The clay goods indicator is on space 3 while the joker is on 
space 5. The player moves the joker to space 0 and takes 5 clay. 
(The clay goods indicator stays on space 3.)
Example 2: The player places a lay brother on the Quarry. 
The stone goods indicator isn’t in the game yet while the joker 
is on space 5. The player moves the joker to space 0 and takes 
5 stone. 
The forest and moor cards don’t have 
function boxes since they are not 
occupied by clergymen. The game board 
outline indicates that you can use them to 
obtain wood or peat.
4 livestock were available. 
After livestock were 
produced, the production 
wheel shows that, for 
now, no more livestock 
are available. 
Important! Doing this means that 
one of your opponent’s clergymen and 
not one of your own will be placed.

Action Build a building
You may build an available building from the open display by paying the 
building costs, located in the upper left hand corner of the building card. 
(There are four different building materials: wood, clay, straw and stone.) 
Place the building card onto an empty landscape space. 
The building rules
• Important! Cloister buildings, recognizable by their 
yellow colored title and symbol boxes, must always be 
adjacent (horizontally or vertically) to other cloister buildings. 
• The landscape type a building card can be built on is indicated in the upper left 
hand corner of the card as well as in the illustration’s background color. There 
are ﬁve landscape types (see the overview): Water, Coast, Plains (which include 
spaces from which peat or wood has been removed), Hillside and Mountain. 
All landscape types are recognizable by their icons. (Coast spaces are also 
recognizable by their sandy beaches and proximity to water. Hillside spaces are 
recognizable by their pine trees and grey-green background. Mountain spaces are 
recognizable by their rock cliffs.) 
• Only the Quarries or the Castle may be built on mountain spaces.
• Only the Houseboat may be built on water spaces. 
(The Houseboat only appears in the Ireland variant.)
 
The effect of the prior when building
After having built a building, you can use your prior to immediately use the 
function of the building. Place your prior onto the newly-built building. 
(You can only do this with your prior, and only if your prior is available.) 
Financing instead of building
Some buildings do not require building materials to build; instead, you 
need to ﬁnance them with money. Building these buildings also counts 
as a building action (not as an additional action, see next section). 
Additional Actions
In addition to carrying out one of the actions outlined above, 
you may carry out as many additional actions on your turn 
as you wish (before or after your main action). 
Extra Action Turn grain into straw
You may flip grain goods tiles over to become straw at any time in the game. Straw is 
used when building or as a source of energy. (Grain is the only goods tile that may be 
ﬂipped at any time.)
• Straw cannot be turned back into grain. 
• Some buildings require different types of goods tiles for their functions. Since both 
sides of a goods tile count as different types of goods, you will sometimes want to 
ﬂip grain over to become straw as part of a building function; this lets you pay both 
1 grain and 1 straw (provided that you have two tiles).
Extra Action Trade coins
You may trade coins at any time: You may trade a 5 coin tile in for five 1 coin 
tiles or vice versa. Additionally, you can trade in at any time wine for 1 coin or 
whiskey for 2 coins (see illustration to your right). 
 
The building action
• You may only build a single building with the “Build a building“ action. 
• The function of a building is indicated in its function box (see page 2). 
• Cards such as the Cloister Courtyard also count as “buildings“.
• You cannot build any buildings if you do not have any empty landscape spaces.
• You cannot buy a building card and set it aside until you can free up a landscape space.
• Buildings, once placed, may not be moved until the end of the game.
Grain can be turned 
into straw at any time.
Wood and clay are available from the production 
wheel. Straw is obtained by ﬂipping grain goods 
tiles over (see Additional actions below).
Stone is a building material that changes over the course 
of a game. It is difﬁcult to obtain at ﬁrst but later becomes 
easier and easier to produce (see page 6, Stone). 
Q
Windmill
Courtyard
3 different 
goods
Courtyard
3 different 
goods
id
i
d
g
4 different goods
ffe
5 different goods
Filial
Church
fferent goods
Chamber of 
Wonders
13 different goods
Wind
The Windmill can only 
be built on a Coast 
or Hillside space. 
The Cloister 
Courtyard is a 
cloister building.
These are the 
buildings that use 
different goods.
Mountain plots 
have 2 Hillside 
spaces and 
1 Mountain space.
Coastal plots have 
2 Water spaces and 
2 Coast spaces.
Water
Coast
Water
Coast
The Quarry 
costs 5 coins.

Extra Action Buy a landscape
You may buy a landscape once per turn and once per settlement phase (see below). 
There are rectangular districts as well as square plots. The topmost tile on both 
piles is available for purchase. Their prices are shown at bottom right. (You must place 
the landscape as soon as you buy it; you may not set it aside temporarily.) 
 Districts
The heartland that each player receives at the start of the game deﬁnes the 
orientation that the districts must follow. The ﬁve district spaces must all be placed 
above or below the heartland; they may not be offset to the right or to the left. You 
can place districts above or below other districts; in this case they must also not be 
offset. When placing a district, you can choose if you want to use the “Moor/Forest/
Forest/Hillside/Hillside“ side or the “Forest/Plains/Plains/Plains/Hillside“ side. When 
you place the tile, it must be oriented such that the price remains at bottom right. 
Place forest cards onto the forest spaces and moor cards onto the moor spaces. 
(The remaining spaces remain empty.) 
Plots
The plots have a coastal and a mountain side. You must decide, after 
buying the plot, which side to use when placing the tile. Coastal plots 
are added to the left of your land while mountain plots are added 
to the right. 
When placing plots:
• At least one Coast space of the new coastal plot must be placed adjacent 
to an existing heartland space, district space or other Coast space. 
• At least one Hillside space of the new mountain plot must be placed 
adjacent to an existing heartland space, district space or other Hillside 
space (see example). 
• When you place the tile, it must be oriented such that the price remains at 
bottom right.
Fundamental rule: Each player should always be able to see how many tiles the other 
players have in their supplies (without having to ask).
Starting Player Change
Each round ends by passing the starting player marker to the next player on the left.
Next Round
The next round begins with all players who have used all three of their clergymen getting 
them back. (Players who have used only 1 or 2 of their clergymen do not get them back.) 
Rotate the production wheel tile one space (see “Course of a Round“, page 2). 
The Settlement Phase
A settlement phase occurs whenever the production wheel beam moves past the next 
pile of building and settlement cards (ﬁrst the A cards, then the B, C and ﬁnally the D 
cards). 
The turquoise building marker indicates when this will happen next.
A ﬁfth and ﬁnal settlement phase takes place at the end of the game.
The settlement phase consists of three parts.
1) Move the turquoise building marker. 
Until the ﬁrst settlement phase, the building marker is located in front of 
the A cards. At the start of the ﬁrst settlement phase, move it onto the 
production wheel space in front of the B cards. 
In the third settlement phase, move the building marker from the 
C cards to the D cards. After the fourth settlement phase, move the 
building marker onto the E space (see next section, page 6), where it 
indicates how many rounds are left before the bonus round is played 
(indicated by the 
y
 symbol on the game board). 
The building 
marker is moved.
g
marker is moved.
In this example, settlement phase A has 
been completed. Settlement phase B will 
follow. The beam moves past the D cards 
without triggering a settlement phase, 
since settlement phases B and C have to 
happen ﬁrst.
Cost
with districts
Heartland with two plots. It is 
possible to place other plots 
below or above existing ones, 
even if they do not touch the 
heartland, as seen here.
Space for districts
Space for a
mountain plot
Space for a
coastal plot

Shanty
Town
Building settlements
• Settlement costs are paid for with goods tiles that have energy and 
food symbols on them. No change is given for excess food or energy, 
so any excess is lost. 
• You cannot build a settlement if you have no empty landscape spaces. 
You cannot build a settlement “for later“ and set it aside temporarily 
until you can free up a (possibly better) landscape space.
 • The “Build a building” action may not be used to build a settlement.
• You cannot build your opponents’ settlements. 
• A summary of the 8 settlements is provided on page 8 of the glossary.
• The Fishing Village may only be built on a Coast space, while 
the Hillside Village may only be built on a Hillside space. (This is 
easily missed.) 
• You cannot build settlements on mountain or water spaces.
• You may choose not to build a settlement.
• A settlement, once placed, cannot be moved until the end of the game.
dwelling v
end of t
dwelling v
d
f
First rotation
 Second rotation
The bold printed 3 
shows that player 
3 will be the ﬁrst 
player to be able to 
build an A building. 
This shows 
25 pieces.
The Stone Merchant is a start building, 
the Quarry is a B building. (There is 
a second Quarry included with the 
C buildings in the France variant.) 
Stone 
Merchant
You can prepare for building a settlement 
during the next settlement phase by placing 
the settlement you intend to build onto a 
landscape space and then taking its food 
and energy costs from your supply and 
placing them on top of it. Remember that if 
you need to use these goods for something 
else ﬁrst you must of course remove the 
card.
The Shanty Town is built with 
1 food and 1 energy. These costs 
can be paid for with 1 grain and 
1 wood, for example. The Shanty 
Town can then be built on any 
Coast, Plains or Hillside space.
2) Each player may build a maximum of 1 settlement from their supply. 
To build a settlement, pay the required energy and food costs (located in the top 
left corner of the card) and place it (following any restrictions) onto an empty 
landscape space on your heartland or other landscape tile. You are allowed to buy 
a maximum of 1 landscape before building your settlement. (Should multiple 
players wish to buy a landscape, then they do so in player order, starting with the 
starting player.)
3) Distribute the current letter’s pile of settlement and building cards. Each 
player receives a new settlement card that may be built in later settlement 
phases or via the Castle’s function (see glossary, page 6). 
• Your supply of settlement cards is not limited to 4: If you choose not to build a 
settlement, then you may have more than 4 settlement cards in your supply. 
• Each player receives the same type of settlement card. 
• Add the new building cards to the “old“ ones in the display. The “old“ buildings 
are not removed from the game. Review the functions of the new buildings. (Their 
functions are shown in the card’s function box as well as in detail in the glossary.)
Bonus Round In Three And Four Player Games
As soon as the production wheel beam moves past the E space (indicated by the corresponding building symbol and ) for the second time, the 
25th and ﬁnal round of the game begins.
Before the bonus round, each player takes his prior back. Each player, in player order, then gets exactly one more action (including the starting 
player) to either build a building or place his prior onto any built building of his choice. It does not matter if the building is occupied or not. You 
do not have to pay for a work contract if you place your prior on another player’s building. Placing your prior on another player’s building is only 
possible in the bonus round. You may also build a building and then immediately place your prior onto it.
A ﬁfth and ﬁnal settlement phase follows the bonus round. The game is then over (
). Scoring is carried out as described on page 7. 
The Stone Good
At ﬁrst, stone is only available from the Stone Merchant, then via 
the joker goods indicator once the Quarry enters the game. Stone 
only gets its own goods indicator in round 13. 
Checking Numbers
When rotating the production wheel, use the checking numbers to verify 
that the right player is the starting player. The production wheel beam points 
(after rotation) at a pair of numbers. The pair of numbers refer to the ﬁrst and 
second full rotation that the production wheel undergoes.
• A number 1 means that the player who was starting player in round 1 is 
the current round’s starting player.
• A number 2 means that the player who was second in round 1 is the 
current round’s starting player.
• Etc. 
(Should the checking number show that a mistake has been made, 
then you can try and correct it.)
Bold print checking numbers indicate which player will be the ﬁrst to choose 
from new buildings. 
Goods Tile 5x
All tiles apart from the Wonders are in unlimited supply. Should the supply run out for some reason, then you can take a 
Wonder tile from the general supply, ﬂip it upside down and place one other goods tile onto it. Thist counts as 5 goods of 
that type. Should you run out of 5 goods tiles or should the tiles be needed as Wonders, then you will need to improvise. 

Scoring
Scoring consists of three parts. 
1) Add up the points on the goods tiles: 5 coins 2 , book 2 , ceramic 3 , ornament 4 , reliquary 8 , Wonder 30 and either wine 1 or 
whiskey 1 . (Remember that wine/whiskey is not only worth 1 , but also 1 coin, which means that 1 wine/whiskey plus 4 coins are worth a 
total of 2 .) 
2) Then, score the economic value of all buildings and settlements. (Their dwelling values are irrelevant here.) 
3) Finally, score the settlements. Each settlement is worth points depending on the cards directly adjacent to it: Settlement points are calculated by 
adding the dwelling values of the settlement (recognizable by the house symbol ) and all adjacent buildings together. 
 
The winner is the player with the highest total points. In the case of a tie there are multiple winners.
The Short Multiplayer Game
You can also play a game of Ora et Labora in just one hour. Use the short 
game gameboard for both three and four player games. Use the front side of the 
production wheel (the one whose numbers go 0, 2, 3, 4, …). 
 
Unlike the longer version, each player 
leaves the two landscape spaces in 
the upper left hand corner of their 
heartlands empty. In other words, each 
player will start with one fewer forest 
and moor card. 
 
The short version of the game is played over 12 rounds plus a bonus round 
(indicated on the game board by the 
 symbol) – the same number of spaces 
that the game board has. It is played with fewer buildings but with higher goods 
production. For a three player game, use the two player game buildings; for a four 
player game, use the two and three player game buildings. If you are playing the 
France variant with four players, you may choose to remove the C-Quarry from 
the game. 
Each player has only 1 prior and 1 lay brother. Therefore: at the 
start of each round, all players who have both of their clergymen on 
buildings get them back.
The increased goods production comes from two special rules that are in effect 
only in the short version.
1. Whenever you use the production wheel to produce goods (this also applies 
to the Shipping Company and the Cooperage), then there is an immediate 
bonus production of this good: Each player (including yourself) takes one of 
the corresponding goods from the general supply. 
2. The production wheel spaces for the short game each show two printed 
goods. At the start of each round, each player receives goods from the general 
supply corresponding to those printed on the production wheel space that the 
beam just passed.
Details regarding settlement scoring
• Only horizontally and vertically adjacent buildings are counted. (Diagonal 
does not count as adjacent.) 
• Should a building be adjacent to more than one settlement, then its 
dwelling value is counted for each of these settlements. 
• Settlements also have a dwelling value. Settlements are therefore counted 
as well when calculating the value of their neighboring settlements.
• Water spaces have a dwelling value 3 . 
• Some buildings have negative dwelling values. 
Important! These negative values only matter when the 
buildings are adjacent to settlements. (When they are far 
away from settlements, you can completely ignore negative 
dwelling values.) 
• Each mountain space borders two hillside spaces. (And 
the hillside spaces on the mountain plots each border one 
mountain space.)
Settlement phases A through D occur at 
the start of rounds 3,5,7 and 9. The grapes 
goods indicator enters the France version 
of the game in round 4. The stone goods 
indicator enters both variants of the game in 
round 6. This information is all shown on the 
game board.
The bonus round (round 13) and ﬁnal 
scoring are carried out in the same manner 
as the longer game.
You can use the checking numbers to verify 
who is the starting player for each round. 
The ﬁrst number is the starting player in a 
three player game, the second number is the 
starting player in a four player game.
The Two Player Game
Use the one to two player game board. Remove all building cards from the 
game that have a 3+ or 4 symbol in their bottom right corners. Use the back 
side of the production wheel (the one whose numbers go 0, 1, 2, 2, …). 
Place the A through D building cards onto the indicated spaces around the 
edges of the two player game board. 
In the three or four player game, the game is round-based with a rotating 
starting player. In the two player game the players simply take turns: At the 
start of each player’s turn, rotate the production wheel one space. Then, that 
player gets to take two actions instead of one, carried out one after the 
other.
In general, follow the rules of the three or four player game. In the following 
sections, replace the word “round“ with “turn“. 
If you want, you can distribute the tiles onto the game board 
before starting the game. Then, at the start of each round, 
one player takes the goods from the board while the rest take 
them from the general supply. This makes it easy to verify if the 
goods have been taken or not. It also makes it easy to ﬁx any 
mistakes that have been made.
The grapes goods indicator 
enters the game in round 4 
of the France variant. 
In the Ireland variant, 
nothing happens at this 
point. 
d i di
The two player game
• You may buy a landscape once per turn and once per settlement phase. 
• Whenever the production wheel beam passes by the next pile of 
building and settlement cards, the game is temporarily interrupted by a 
settlement phase. This happens at the start of a turn, not the start of a 
round in the two player game. 
• Players get their three clergymen back at the start of a turn (provided 
they were all used). 
• Should a player have placed all three of his clergymen over the course 
of a turn, then his buildings cannot be used again until the end of his 
turn. (Exceptions: Priory, Palace, Grand Manor)
er version each player

The grapes (only in the France variant) and stone goods indicators enter 
the game in rounds 11 and 18 respectively, which means that stone does 
not enter the game until the second full rotation of the production wheel 
(indicated by a 2 in a spiral symbol). 
Once you have ﬁnished your turn it is the other player’s turn. (The players can 
decide if they want to use the starting player marker to keep track of this.) 
Each time the turn passes the following counts for both players: Any player 
who has used all three of his clergymen (1x prior and 2x lay brother) takes all 
of his clergymen back. 
There is no bonus round unlike in the three or four player game. 
Important! The two player game has no ﬁxed game end. The game enters 
its ﬁnal phase when the D buildings are in the game and there is at most 
1 building left in the open display. Play the current turn through to the 
end. Rotate the production wheel. The other player then gets one final action. 
The game is then over without a ﬁnal settlement phase taking place (as 
would be the case in three and four player game). Scoring is carried out in the 
same manner as in the multiplayer game (see page 7). 
The Long Two Player Game
You can also play Ora et Labora as a two player game with nearly all of 
the buildings. (The game will then last up to 3 hours.) The following rules are 
changed.
The only buildings that are not used are the Carpentry, the C-Grapevine and 
the C-Quarry in the France variant (represented by the crossed-out 2 on the 
cards). (All buildings are used in the Ireland variant.) 
Play according to the normal two player game rules with the following 
exceptions. 
Use the front side of the production wheel (the one whose numbers go 0, 
2, 3, 4, …), unlike the normal two player game. (Keep the one to two player 
game board, however.) 
The long two player game is round-based, like the multiplayer game. Each 
round, the starting player ﬁrst carries out two actions (one after the other), 
after which the other player carries out one action. The round is then over 
and the starting player role changes. Rotate the production wheel. The other 
player then carries out two actions, after which the original starting player 
carries out one action. 
The long two player game
• During your effectively three actions in a row, you can buy up to 
two landscapes (districts and plots); one during your ﬁrst action 
and another in either your second or third action.
There is no bonus round like in the three or four player game. 
As with the regular two player game, the long version has no ﬁxed game 
end. The game enters its ﬁnal phase when the D buildings are in the game 
and there are no more than 3 buildings left in the open display. Play the 
current round through to the end. The game is then over and scoring is carried 
out (see page 7). 
The Solo Game
Game Setup
Use the one to two player game board. Use the front side of the 
production wheel (the one whose numbers go 0, 2, 3, 4, …).
Use all 41 buildings in the Ireland variant. In the France variant, remove the 
Carpentry, both Grapevines and the C-Quarry from the game (represented by 
the crossed-out 1 on the cards). These buildings are not used in the solo game. 
Place the Start buildings 
 into the display. Place the A through D building 
cards onto the spaces intended for them around the edges of the solo game 
board. Add the joker to the rest of the goods indicators on the space with the 
“A“ symbol. 
Remove the grapes and stone indicators from the game entirely. 
Turn the district and plot piles upside down. (So the most expensive 
landscapes are on top are the ﬁrst ones that can be bought.)
Gameplay
When you play the solo game, you start with nothing. You do not receive 
any starting goods. 
Otherwise, the game is played following the rules of the two player 
game. (Take two actions after each rotation of the production wheel.) 
When the production wheel is rotated while a goods indicator is on space 10, 
it is not pushed along. Instead, it is removed from the game entirely. 
The Neutral Player
The neutral player is a special feature of the solo game. 
• The neutral player also gets a heartland with a Farmyard, 
a Cloister Ofﬁce and a Clay Mound. He does not receive 
any moors or forests.
• Place the Builders’ Market onto the upper left hand space 
of the neutral player’s heartland (represented by the N on 
the card). 
• Give the neutral player 2 lay brothers and 1 prior of the same color. 
• Whenever you want to use the building function of one of the neutral 
player’s buildings, you must pay 1 coin to the general supply. Place 
one of the neutral player’s clergymen onto the chosen building. You decide 
if it will be the prior or a lay brother. The cost increases to 2 coins as soon 
as the Winery or the Whiskey Distillery is built. The cost is indicated by 
the starting player marker. (As with the two to four player game, you can 
choose to give a present instead of paying the 2 coins.)
• At the start of each settlement phase, you must place all remaining 
buildings in the display onto the neutral player’s heartland. 
• Building rules for the neutral player: Since there won’t be enough room on 
the heartland for all of the buildings that the neutral player will build, you 
may overbuild any unoccupied buildings (including basic buildings). You 
may overbuild more than once. You may only overbuild cloister buildings 
with other cloister buildings, and you may only overbuild non cloister 
buildings with other non cloister buildings. Additionally, you must ensure 
that all cloister buildings are adjacent to at least one other cloister building. 
You do not need to worry about Coast, Plains, Hillside or Mountain space 
restrictions (upper left corner of the cards); these do not restrict building. 
(Only the neutral player gets to ignore these building restrictions.)
• As soon as the neutral player has finished building, you may use one of 
the newly-built buildings. Outside of your regular game turn, place the 
neutral player’s prior onto the chosen building. The neutral player’s prior 
must be available or you cannot perform this action. (You may not choose 
newly-built but immediately overbuilt buildings.) 
You must pay the work contract price for the neutral player’s prior. 
 
This work contract price is often forgotten. 
• At the start of each turn (regardless of whether there was a settlement 
phase or not), check to see if the neutral player gets all three of his 
clergymen back (remember to check for yourself as well). 
A round with a settlement phase looks like this:
1. Return your or the neutral player’s clergymen should all three have 
been used. 
2. Rotate the production wheel. 
3. The neutral player builds all remaining buildings.
4. Optional: Place the neutral player’s prior onto one of the newly-built 
buildings. Pay the work contract price for this. 
5. This may result in the neutral player now getting all three clergymen back. 
6. Carry out the settlement phase. 
7. Carry out your normal game turn. 
Unlike settlement phases A through D, in the last round (settlement phase E), 
step 7 takes place between steps 2 and 3 instead. (The neutral player’s 
building and the settlement phase only take place after your turn. This is 
similar to what happens in the multiplayer game.)
The game ends after this last settlement phase.
The goal of the solo game is to reach 500 points. 
This is slightly easier to achieve in the Ireland variant.