CONTENTS
• 1 Main board
• 1 Rewards board
• 36 Tribe Pawns
• 36 Villages
• 30 Innovation tiles
• 6 Hunting tokens
• 11 Strait tokens
• 48 Cards:
• 14 Action (yellow)
• 14 Permanent (orange) 
• 20 Objective (purple)
SETUP FOR 
2/3 PLAYERS
With 4 players, there are 
two of each Medium pawn. 
When playing with 2 or 3 
players, remove one set of 
9 Medium Pawns O, leav-
ing you with 27 pawns, not 
36. This will mean that all 
Pawns are different.
Tip: It’s possible to 
properly 
identify 
Height of a Pawn by 
looking at the number 
of sections on his legs 
marked by the dotted 
lines.
Each Pawn has three characteristics: his Speed (= height), his Strength (= width), and his 
Color. Each characteristic comes in three different variants.
In Origin, live the greatest 
adventure of all time: Mankind’s 
expansion. Starting in Africa, the 
world’s cradle, explore the entire 
planet, improve your knowledge and 
progress on the evolution scale.
GOAL OF THE GAME
TRIBE PAWNS
Score the highest number of points by completing objectives, hunting, controlling straits, 
or developing knowledge.
Short
Speed 1
Medium
Speed 2
Tall
Speed 3
Weak
Strength 1
Average
Strength 2
Strong
Strength 3
White, Brown, and Black.
height
width
color
Created by Andrea Mainini
Illustrated by Nephyla
minutes
10 years
and up
2-4
players
* If you do not have at least 3 level 1 Inno-
vation tiles, repeat this step until you do.
•	Place the Main board B at the table’s center, and place next to it the smaller board called 
the Rewards board C. 
•	Place the box bottom with the 36 Tribe Pawns at an angle in the box top D to make the 
Pawns easily visible and accessible. 
•	Then place one of the shortest and weakest Pawns of any color on the territory marked 
by the Origin symbol E.
•	Each player chooses a player color (not a Pawn Color) and takes the 9 corresponding 
Villages F. 
•	Shuffle the Action cards (yellow) and place them face-down, in a pile on the corresponding 
space of the Rewards board G. Do the same with the Permanent cards (orange) H. 
•	Shuffle the Objective cards (purple) and distribute 3 randomly to each player. Each player 
chooses one from these three I and puts the other two back into the pile. Shuffle the 
Objective cards again and place them face-down, in a pile on the corresponding space 
of the Rewards board J.
•	Randomly place the Innovation tiles face-up on the corresponding spaces of the 
Rewards board K. The unused tiles are kept face down and constitute a reserve L.*
•	Randomly place the Strait tokens face-up on the 11 Straits of the Main board M. 
•	Randomly place the Hunting tokens face-up on each green territory of the Main Board N. 
Place the unused token back in the box; it will not be used during this game.
•	The smallest player will be the first player, and play proceeds clockwise.
B
C
D
E
F
F
G
H
J
L
M
M
N
N
I
I
O
SETUP
Did you try Origin Junior already? 
Are you experienced gamers?
If yes, play this version of the game.

EVOLUTION
Place a new Tribe Pawn and its Village 
on a vacant territory of the board.
MIGRATION
to a vacant territory.
SWAP
towards another player’s Tribe Pawn.
1 -	During his turn, a player MUST do one of the following 3 actions:
2 -	The player takes the Rewards corresponding to his action (see Rewards Phase).
3 -	In addition to his mandatory action, the player can play up to one card of each color (see The Cards) at any 
time during his turn.
Note: If the Evolution involves a 
territory adjacent to several occupied 
territories, the placement conditions 
only have to apply with one of the 
neighboring Pawns.
ACTION PHASE
Place a new Tribe Pawn and its Village 
on a vacant territory of the board.
to a vacant territory.
Move a Tribe Pawn and its Village into the 
same space as another player’s Tribe Pawn.
MIGRATION
The player can move one of his Pawns (with its Village), already placed on the 
Main Board, up to a number of territories corresponding to his Height (1, 2 or 3).
During his movement, a player can move through territories, even if they are 
occupied by other players’ Pawns.
It is legal to use only part of the available movement.
The player places the Tribe Pawn on the territory with a Village of his color. The 
Strength 1 Pawns are inserted in the hole whereas the others are placed on the Village.
From now on, the Pawn and the Village cannot be separated, even if the Pawn moves. 
Once placed, Pawns and Villages cannot be removed from the Main Board in any way.
The movement follows the same rules as Migration.
The destination territory must be occupied by a Pawn of inferior Strength 	
.
The arriving Pawn triggers a Trade: both Pawns (and their Villages) switch places. 
The stronger Pawn takes over the weaker Pawn’s territory, and the weaker Pawn is 
sent to the territory the stronger Pawn just left.
It is not possible to Swap with the neutral Pawn of the starting territory. 
SWAP
EVOLUTION
The player takes a Tribe Pawn from the reserve and 
places it on a vacant territory of the Main board. The 
new Pawn has to be placed on a territory adjacent 
to a territory already occupied by a Pawn, no matter 
which player controls it. Territories connected by a 
Strait are considered to be adjacent.
In order to be placed, the Pawn must have at least two 
characteristics which are identical to the Pawn he’s 
placed next to. 
The different characteristic can be: different Color, Height +1, or 
Strength +1. It is not possible to place a Pawn with a Strength or 
Height inferior to his neighbor.
The following configurations are possible:
• Completely identical: same Height, same Strength, same Color.
• Different Color: same Height, same Strength, different Color.
• Strength +1: same Height, same Color, Strength superior by 1.
• Height +1: same Strength, same Color, Height superior by 1.
The pink player moves a Height 2 Strength 2 
Pawn. It moves and lands on the yellow ter-
ritory occupied by a green Strength 1 Pawn. 
The pink Pawn takes the green one’s place, 
and the green one is chased to the pink 
Pawn’s place.
The green player moves a Height 2 Pawn. 
It goes through the Green territory occupied by 
a pink Pawn and lands on the Orange territory.
Incorrect: 2 differences, 
Color and Height.
Incorrect: The difference in 
Strength is greater than 1.
Incorrect: Height is 
inferior.
Correct: Only the Height is 
different (difference of 1).
Correct: Only the Color 
is different.

When an Innovation tile is taken from the Rewards Board, it is replaced by a new one 
drawn randomly from the reserve. If the reserve is empty, the tile is not replaced.
Description of the cards are on page 4.
INNOVATION TILES RESTRICTIONS
Warning! The tiles are placed in front of the player, face up. The player needs to place the 
tile(s) he just drew on another tile of the immediate lower level. It is always possible to 
draw a level 1 Innovation tile but if the player doesn’t have a tile of the immediately lower 
level, it is not possible to draw a Level 2-5 Innovation tile. 
The level is indicated by the number of spears drawn on the tile. The illustrations on the 
tiles only have an esthetic purpose.
2) Hunting grounds
A player who places or moves a Tribe Pawn onto a Green territory instantly earns the 
Hunting token placed on it. From now on, this territory will give no other reward. At the 
end of the game, the player will score a number of points corresponding to token’s value. 
Once a player earned a Hunting token, he cannot lose it in any way.
3) Straits
When a player has villages on both sides of a Strait he controls it and he instantly claims 
the corresponding Strait token off the Main Board. 
Once the token has been claimed, the Strait token ownership is not impacted by the Strait 
control anymore.
The player ends his round by taking the Rewards he won through his action.
There are 4 types of Rewards that can be obtained depending on the conquered territory:
	
• Cards (Action, Permanent, or Objective)
	
• Innovation tiles (Level 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5)
	
• Hunting tokens (Value 4 to 8)
	
• Strait tokens (Value 3 to 5)
1) Obtaining cards and discovering innovations
When a player places or moves a Tribe Pawn onto a territory, he instantly takes the 
Rewards corresponding to the territory’s color. 
The Yellow, Orange, Purple, and Brown territories refer to the Rewards board. Each color 
offers a choice between two different Rewards (see below).
REWARDS PHASE
YELLOW
from the yellow column, 
then draw the first Action 
Card. 
Draw the first three Action 
cards and add them to your 
hand. Then put any two 
Action cards from your 
hand at the bottom of the 
pile.
ORANGE
from the orange column, 
then draw the first Perma-
nent Card. 
Draw 
first 
three 
Permanent cards and add 
them to your hand. Then 
put any two Permanent 
cards from your hand at 
the bottom of the pile.
PURPLE
from the purple column, 
then draw the first Objec-
tive Card. 
Draw 
first 
three 
Objective cards and add 
them to your hand. Then 
put any two Objective 
cards from your hand at 
the bottom of the pile.
BROWN
Choose two of the six 
Innovation tiles available 
in the brown column.
Choose an Innovation tile 
out of any column of the 
Rewards Board. 
Note: A player provoking 
a Swap with another player, 
earns the Rewards correspond-
ing to the territory where he 
lands, following the same rules 
as Migration and Evolution. 
The other player does not lose 
any of his possessions, but 
does not win the Rewards of 
the territory he is chased to.
A player has the tiles 1-2-3-1. He can 
only take one level 4 tile to put on 
top of his level 3 tile, or a level 2 tile 
to put on top of his level 1 tile, or a 
new level 1 tile.
Green player has villages on two 
sides of the Strait. He takes the Strait 
token (value 4).
Note: If a player is allowed to 
draw a card or an Innovation 
tile and there are no cards or 
tiles left, the player earns no 
Reward.

At any time during his turn, in addition to his mandatory action, a player can play up to 
three cards, one of each color (Yellow, Orange, Purple). 
• ACTION CARDS (yellow)
When an Action card is used, the corresponding effect is completed immediately 
and the card is discarded.
• PERMANENT CARDS (orange)
To place a Permanent card, it is necessary to own at least one Innovation tile 
of the level indicated on the card. The card has to be played and placed face 
up in front of the player for the effect to be activated. The effect is permanent 
and lasts for the rest of the game, even if the player loses the Innovation tile 
that allowed him to activate the card.
• OBJECTIVE CARDS (purple)
Players earn victory points by completing Objective cards as soon as they fulfill 
the conditions specified on the card (he has the number of elements indicated 
on the cards, or more). Once all the conditions are met, the player can place 
the card face up in front of him. Once the Objective has been placed face up, it 
cannot be lost or stolen in any way.
VERY IMPORTANT!
• As soon as a player plays his Objective card, he immediately draws a new Objective card.
• A player cannot have more than 2 Objective cards in his hand. If a player already has 
2 Objective cards when he has to draw a new one, he has to choose and keep only two 
and put the other at the bottom of the Objective cards deck.
The game ends when one (or several) elements are exhausted:
• One of the three cards’ decks is empty (Action, Permanent, or Objective).
• All the Innovation tiles have been taken from the Rewards Board.
• The Tribe Pawns reserve is empty.
• All players have used all their Villages.
The player who took the last element of one of these categories starts the end of the 
game. The other players have one last turn each, then the game ends and the players 
count their points. 
During the last round, the players can play more than one Objective card, but they do 
not draw new Objectives to replace Objective cards played after the first one.
• Players earn as many points as indicated on the Objective cards.
• Each Action, Permanent, and Objective cards still in hand gives 1 point each. 
• The Hunting tokens and the Strait tokens give as many points as indicated on the tokens.
• Each Innovation tile placed in front of a player gives him 1 point, except for the level 5 
Innovation tiles that give 5 points. 
The player with the highest final score wins the game.
In case of a tie, the tied player having the most cards in hand wins the game.
THE CARDS
END OF THE GAME
Example: 
A player owns:
•	5 Objective cards scoring 
6/5/5/4/4 
= 24 points
•	2 Permanent cards and 
1 Action card still in hand 
= 3 points
•	1 Hunting token scoring 4 
= 4 points
•	2 Strait tokens 
(scoring 4 and 5) 
= 9 points
•	2 level 1 Innovation tiles, 
2 level 2 Innovation tiles, 
1 level 3, 1 level 4 and 
1 level 5 
= 11 points
His final score = 51 points.
Note: A player cannot play 
a card during another play-
er’s turn. But he can play up to 
three cards in any order during 
his turn.
Example: The player can play an 
Action card at the beginning of 
his turn, then move a Pawn, play 
a Permanent card and finally 
play an Objective card.
Note: Some Objective cards 
in the game refer to “conti-
nents”. Each land mass sepa-
rated from others 
by Straits consti-
tutes one continent, 
except for the two 
islands shown be-
low, which together 
form Oceania.
Example: 
This 
card 
bears a level 3 Innovation 
symbol. It is necessary to 
own a level 3 Innovation 
tile in order to play it.
POWER
Starting now, you can Swap 
with Tribes of same strength.
THANKS
Origin had a long time of development and improvement and it was tested in many alternative versions during the last 5 years. 
During this period the willingness of my friends and the patience of the Matagot team have been strongly challenged and so I 
desire to remember all of them: Stefania Angelelli, Alberto Branciari, Luciano Sopranzetti, Walter Obert, Luca Borsa, Paolo Mori, 
Tinuz, Paoletta, Willy, Paolo Ruffo, Matagot team (Hicham, Arnaud, Mathieu, Yann, Doria, Barbara, Fabien, Sabrina). In particular my 
best acknowledgement goes to Bruno Cathala who, with his suggestions and his final tuning, has strongly contributed to the final result.