– 1 –
Deutsch 
 
 
02 - 11
English 
 
 
12 - 21
Ortskarten / Place Tiles 
22 - 23
Materialliste / Components 24

– 12 –
Place the large 
game board (places 
and terrain) and the 
“Beneﬁ cial Deeds” 
board on the table.
Each player takes:
1 Player Board
1 Merchant Token
10 Trading Stations
As well as in one player color:
Sort the neutral Character Tiles 
(without the marking in player color) 
by profession and place them on the 
appropriate buildings on the game 
board.
Supply Spaces for Goods Tiles
Place 13 Citizen Tiles on the 
marked spaces on the game board 
and the “Beneﬁ cial Deeds” 
board. Put the remaining tile on 
the table.
Remove the “Pilgrimage” 
Tile (lighter hue) from the 
deck of Hour Glass Tiles, 
then shufﬂ e the remaining 
tiles. Place the shufﬂ ed stack 
Setup
Place the Technology Tiles in a 
stack on the appropriate space of 
the game board.
1 Followers Bag
5 coins
Put the coins on the table 
close at hand.
7 markers 
(wooden cubes)
Place 1 marker from 
each player on the 
ﬁ rst space of each 
of the Character 
Tracks as well as the 
Development Track.

– 13 –
Shufﬂ e the Goods Tiles face down and 
place them face up on the Road and 
Waterway Spaces, one tile per space. In 
4-player games, every such space receives a 
tile (whereas in 2- and 3-player games some 
spaces remain empty, see right).
Sort the remaining Goods Tiles and place 
them face up on the appropriate spaces of 
the Goods Market (on the left side of the 
game board).
Beneﬁ cial Deeds
Sort the Place Tiles by the 
Roman numerals on the reverse 
side and place them in separate 
stacks on the table.
3-player game:
Remove the Followers of the unused player 
color from the game.
Remove 2 each of the neutral “Farmer”, 
“Boatman”, “Craftsman”, and “Trader” 
Character Tiles from the game.
Remove 3 each of the “Knight”, “Scholar”, 
and “Monk” Character Tiles from the game.
Remove 6 Goods Tiles from the game at 
random.
Do not place any Goods Tiles on spaces marked 
with “4”. Those spaces remain empty.
2-player game:
Remove the Followers of the unused player 
colors from the game.
Remove 4 each of the neutral “Farmer”, 
“Boatman”, “Craftsman”, and “Trader” 
Character Tiles from the game.
Remove 6 each of the “Knight”, “Scholar”, 
and “Monk” Character Tiles from the game.
Remove 12 Goods Tiles from the game at 
random.
Do not place any Goods Tiles on spaces 
marked with “3” or “4”. Those spaces remain 
empty.
of tiles face down on the appropriate 
space of the game board and put the 
“Pilgrimage” Tile on top. The game will 
always start with the “Pilgrimage” event 
during the ﬁ rst round.
Place your Merchant Token in 
Orléans.
You are now ready to play!
1 set of Followers:
a Farmer, a Boatman, a Craftsman, and a Trader
Place your Trading Stations and coins in front of you. Place 
the 4 Followers of your color on the Market Spaces of your 
Player Board.
12a
12b

– 14 –
Goal of the Game
You are trying to achieve dominance in various areas in medieval France. You will get goods, coins, and victory points via production, 
trade, development, and by committing to the common good.
Course of Play
The youngest player receives the Start Player Token.
The game is played over 18 rounds, with each round being comprised of 7 phases.
Phase 1
Hour Glass: The Start Player draws the topmost Hour Glass Tile from the stack and turns it face up. The 
Hour Glass Tiles determine the length of the game. The game ends at the end of the round in which the 
18th and last tile is drawn. Each Hour Glass Tile also introduces an event that will affect the current round. 
There are 6 different types of events (see “The Events in Detail”). Except Pilgrimage, events are resolved in 
Phase 6: “Event”.
Phase 2
Census: Determine who has the most and who has the least Farmers. The player whose marker is furthest ahead on the Farmers 
Track receives 1 coin from the supply. If there is a tie, no player receives the coin. The player whose marker is furthest behind on the 
track must pay 1 coin to the supply. If there is a tie, no player has to pay the coin.
Please note: In the 2-player game, the player who is behind on the track does 
not have to pay a coin. The player who is ahead still receives a coin.
Phase 3
Followers: Draw Character Tiles from your Followers Bag and place them on the Market. You may draw a number of Character Tiles 
from your bag equal to or lower than the number indicated by your marker on the Knights Track. At the beginning of the game, this 
number is 4. Place the drawn tiles on the Market Spaces of your Player Board. You may not draw more tiles than you can ﬁ t in your 
Market. (Note: Character Tiles that you do not use remain on your Market, thus taking up space that you might need when drawing 
tiles.)
Phase 4 
Planning: You may use the Character Tiles from your Market to activate actions in Places. You may leave Character Tiles on your 
Market to use them in subsequent rounds.
Each Place provides a speciﬁ c action and requires a certain set of Character Tiles to activate. (Some Place Tiles only require a single 
tile for activation or none at all.)
Start Player Token
Example: The blue player receives a coin 
and the red player must pay a coin.
Example: The green player may draw 4 tiles from his bag. 
The yellow and blue player may each draw 6 tiles, and the red 
player may even draw 8 tiles from his bag.
2 PLAYERS

– 15 –
Place the required Character Tiles on the corresponding Action Spaces of the Place you want to activate. A Place is considered 
activated as soon as all of its Action Spaces have a tile. You can carry out the action during the following or during a future Action 
Phase.
You are not required to place all required tiles during the same Planning Phase. You may place some now and the rest in subsequent 
rounds. As long as you have not placed all of the required tiles, you have not activated the action and may not play it.
Phase 5
Actions: You may carry out the actions of the Places you activated, i.e. where you placed a Follower (or Technology Tile) on every 
required space. 
Beginning with the Start Player and in clockwise order, each player may carry out 1 action or pass. If you pass, you cannot carry out 
any more actions during that round.
After you played an action, remove the Followers from that action (e.g. the Boatman and the Craftsman from the Farm House) and 
put them back into your bag. 
Please note: Technology Tiles remain on the Action Spaces you placed them until the end of the game.
You may carry out your actions in any order. You are not required to carry out an activated action. You may pass even if you could 
carry out more actions. The Action Phase ends when all players have passed. If you pass, you cannot participate in the current Action 
Phase anymore. Activated actions that you did not use this round remain activated and can be used in a subsequent round. Do not 
remove Character Tiles from actions you have not used yet.
Phase 6
Event: Resolve the event shown on the Hour Glass Tile of this round.
(The event affects all players. See below for details on the events.)
Phase 7
Start Player: The current Start Player passes the Start Player Token to the player to his left. 
Example: You need a boatman and a craftsman to 
receive another farmer.

– 16 –
The Actions/Places
Every Place represents a speciﬁ c action. Your Player Board features the most common Places. As the game progresses, you can 
acquire additional Places (see below, “Expanding the City”). 
You can play an action if it is activated (all spaces occupied). After you played an action, you remove the Character Tiles (but not the 
Technology Tiles) used to activate it and return them to your Followers Bag.
The Places and their actions in detail:
Farm House
Take a Farmer Tile from the Farm House on the game board 
and put the Farmer into your bag.
Then advance your marker one space on the Farmers Track and 
receive the depicted good. The position of your marker on this 
track also plays a role during Phase 2: “Census”.
Village
In the Village, you can receive another Boatman, Craftsman, or Trader. You can choose one of the 
following actions (Boatman, Craftsman, Trader):
Boatman
Take a Boatman Tile from the game board and 
put it into your Followers Bag. Then advance 
one space on the Boatmen Track and receive the 
depicted number of coins. On the last space of that 
track, the ﬁ rst player to get there receives a Citizen 
Tile instead of coins.
Craftsman
Take a Craftsman Tile from the game board 
and put it into your Followers Bag. Then advance 
one space on the Craftsmen Track and receive a 
Technology Tile. Put the Technology Tile next to 
your Player Board. You may only use it after you 
pass.
Technology: You can place the Technology Tile on an Action Space of your choice to replace the required Character 
Tile for the rest of the game. You do not remove the Technology Tile after you played the action. It remains on its space 
until the end of the game.
Constraints:
- The ﬁ rst Technology Tile you place in a game must replace a Farmer.
- Subsequent Technology Tiles may replace any Character Tile except Monks.
- Monks can never be replaced with Technology Tiles.
- You may not place more than 1 Technology Tile at one Place.
- You may not place a Technology Tile at a Place that only requires a single Character Tile.
- You may not move a Technology Tile after you placed it.
h i
t
l

– 17 –
Trader 
Take a Trader Tile from the game board and put 
it into your Followers Bag. Then advance one space 
on the Traders Track and expand your city with a 
Place Tile.
Expanding the City: You may choose a Place Tile. There are two types of 
Place Tiles, I and II. When you advance on the Traders Track for the ﬁ rst time, 
you may only choose a tile from stack I. Every other time you advance on the 
track, you may choose a tile from stack I or II. Place the chosen Place Tile 
next to your Player Board. You now have another Place you can activate or 
use its special ability.
Note: The players may look through the stacks of Place Tiles at any time. See 
the appendix for details on the different Place Tiles.
University
Take a Scholar Tile from the game board and put it into your 
Followers Bag. Then advance one space on the Scholars Track 
and receive the depicted number of Development Points. For 
each Development Point you receive during the game, advance 
your marker one space on the Development Track.
Castle 
Take a Knight Tile from the game board and put it into your 
Followers Bag. Then advance one space on the Knights Track. 
The Knights Track indicates how many Followers you may 
draw from your bag and place on your Market in Phase 3. At the 
beginning of the game, you may draw 4 Followers each round. 
You can increase this number by recruiting Knights.
Note: When you get your fourth Knight, this number (7) does 
not increase, but you may receive a Citizen Tile if you are the ﬁ rst 
player to get there.
Monastery
Take a Monk Tile from the game board and put it into your Followers Bag. 
There is no additional bonus like with the other actions. Monks can be used in 
place of any of the other Character Tiles. (However, the inverse is not true. 
You cannot use another Character Tile or a Technology Tile in place of a Monk.)
Note: Once your marker moves onto the last 
space of a track, you may no longer take the 
corresponding action.

– 18 –
Ship
Move your Merchant Token from its current location along a Waterway 
(blue connection) to an adjacent town. If there is a Goods Tile on the way, 
you may take it. If there are multiple goods, you may take one of them. Place 
the Goods Tile next to your Player Board.
Wagon
This action is similar to the “Ship” action, but rather than moving along a 
Waterway, move your Merchant Token along a Road (brown connection).
Guildhall
Build a Trading Station in the town in which your Merchant Token is 
present if there is no Trading Station in that town already (regardless of 
which player it belongs to). Each town can only have one Trading Station.
Exception: In Orléans, each player may build one Trading Station.
Scriptorium
You receive 1 Development Point. Advance your marker one space on the 
Development Track.
Town Hall
During the Planning Phase, you can place 1 or 2 Character Tiles in the 
Town Hall. (The Town Hall does not require both spaces be occupied in 
order to activate.) When using the “Town Hall” action, move one or both 
Character Tiles from the Town Hall to any free appropriate spaces on the 
“Beneﬁ cial Deeds” board. You receive the depicted reward (1, 2, or 3 
coins, and in case of Canalization 1 coin or 1 Development Point) for each 
character.
When you complete a Beneﬁ cial Deed (i.e. you place a tile on the last 
remaining unoccupied space), you receive the Citizen Tile of that Beneﬁ cial 
Deed.
You cannot replace the Character Tiles required for Beneﬁ cial Deeds with 
other tiles (like Monks). You must always use the exact Character Tiles as 
shown on the spaces. Character Tiles used for Beneﬁ cial Deeds remain 
there for the rest of the game.
Please note: You may not place the Followers of your 
color (i.e. your initial Farmer, Boatman, Craftsman, 
and Trader) in the Town Hall.
y
, 
e
a
s
f 
 

– 19 –
The Development Track
Some spaces of the Development Track show coins or contain a Citizen Tile. If you move 
your marker onto or past a space with coins, you receive the depicted amount of coins 
from the supply. If you are the ﬁ rst player to move onto or past a space with a Citizen Tile, 
you receive that tile.
Development Status Spaces indicate your state of development. If you move onto or 
past such a space, your Development Status immediately becomes the depicted value. At 
the beginning of the game, this value is 1.
Note: Your Development Status affects the “Income” event (you receive a 
number of coins equal to your Development Status), the Hospital, as well as the 
victory point value of your Citizen Tiles and Trading Stations at the end of the game.
End of the Game and Scoring
The game ends after 18 rounds. Before you proceed with the scoring, the player who has built the most Trading 
Stations receives the remaining Citizen Tile. If there is a tie, no player receives the tile. Then determine your ﬁ nal 
scores. You score victory points (VP) for:
Coins: 1 VP per coin
Goods: 
Brocade: 5 VP
Wool: 4 VP
Wine: 3 VP
Cheese: 2 VP
Grain: 1 VP
Trading Stations and Citizen Tiles: Each Trading Station you have built and 
every Citizen Tile you have collected is worth a number of VP equal to your 
Development Status.
(Example: Klemens has built 5 Trading Stations and collected 2 Citizen Tiles. 
His current Development Status is 4, as indicated by the Development Track. 
He receives (5+2) x 4 = 28 VP.)
The player with the most VP wins. In case of a tie, the player further ahead on the 
Development Track wins. If still tied, there are multiple winners.
Additional Rule: Exclusion of Place Tiles (Recommended for Experienced Players)
At the beginning of the game (before the ﬁ rst round), beginning with the Start Player and in clockwise order, each player may 
exclude one Place Tile from play (from category I or II). Put the excluded tiles back into the game box. In a 2-player game, each 
player excludes 2 tiles.

– 20 –
The Events in Detail
3x Pilgrimage:
When the “Pilgrimage” event is drawn, you may not recruit Monks this round. Pilgrimage is the only 
event that is not triggered in Phase 6: “Event”, but in Phase 5: “Actions”.
3x Income:
You receive a number of coins equal to your Development Status.
3x Harvest:
You must pay 1 food item (grain, cheese, or wine). Return the paid food item to the Goods Market. If 
you cannot pay the food, pay 5 coins instead. If you cannot do this either, you must undergo torture (see 
below).
3x Taxes:
Count the number of goods you have. Pay 1 coin per 3 goods you have. If you cannot pay, you must 
undergo torture (see below).
3x Trading Day:
You receive 1 coin per Trading Station you built.
3x Plague:
You lose 1 Character Tile. Draw a Character Tile from your Followers Bag and return it to the game board 
(it becomes available again). Do not move your marker back on the corresponding track. You cannot lose 
the Character Tiles of your color (i.e. your initial Farmer, Boatman, Craftsman, or Trader). If you draw one 
of them, lucky you. In this case, you do not lose a Character Tile this round.

– 21 –
Torture (Bankruptcy)
Every time you must pay something (e.g. during Census or Taxes) and you cannot do so, you must undergo torture. You must replace 
every missing coin with something else from this list:
- a Trading Station (an already built one or one from your supply)
- a Follower (draw a random one from your bag; as long as you draw a Follower of your color, put the Follower back into the bag 
and draw again)
- a Development Point (move your marker on the Development Track one space to the left, but not onto or past a space with 
coins)
- a Goods Tile
- a Place Tile
- a Technology Tile
You may replace missing coins with any mix of items from this list (e.g. if you owe 5 coins, you may replace them with 1 Follower, 
2 Trading Stations, and 2 Development Points).
All items lost in this process are removed from the game. Only Development Points can be re-gained.
General Rules of the Game 
Running Out of Tiles:
Character, Technology, and Goods Tiles are limited in this game. You cannot gain a tile if it is not available anymore. When you run 
out of a particular tile, you can no longer play an action that provides that tile. Events may result in certain tiles becoming available 
again (Harvest, Plague). When this happens, you can play the corresponding actions again. When there are not enough coins in the 
supply (temporarily), players cannot receive coins (at the moment).
Checking on Your Followers
At any time during the game, you may look into your bag to see how many and which Followers you have in there. (When you ﬁ nish 
looking, shufﬂ e the tiles in your bag so that you cannot draw particular tiles on purpose.)
Empty Roads or Waterways
You may use empty Roads and Waterways. You just do not receive a good.
Marked Followers
The marked Followers of your color (which you received during setup) always remain with you (either in your bag or on your board). 
You cannot use them for Beneﬁ cial Deeds nor lose them to the Plague nor pay with them during Torture.
Placed Character Tiles
You cannot move a Character Tile from one Action Space to another. However, when drawing Followers from your bag during Phase 
3: “Followers”, for each Follower that you decline to draw, you may move a Character Tile from an Action Space to your Market. 
(Example: Stefan may draw 6 Followers. He only draws 4 Followers and moves 2 Followers from Action Spaces to his Market.)
Payments
Pay coins into the general supply and take coins from there when you receive them.
Turn Order 
Most phases can be played simultaneously. In Phase 4 (Planning), start planning at the same time. Then tell the other players 
when you are done planning. If need be, do this in turn order, i.e. beginning with the Start Player and in clockwise order. Likewise, 
resolve payments in that same order.

– 22 –
Ortskarten zum Ausbau der Stadt / The Place Tiles in Detail
Heuschober, Käserei, Winzerei, Wollmanufaktur und Schneiderei 
Man erhält die jeweils abgebildete Ware vom Warenmarkt. Ist die entsprechende Ware auf dem Warenmarkt nicht mehr 
erhältlich, kann die Aktion nicht durchgeführt werden.
Hayrick, Cheese Factory, Winery, Wool Manufacturer, and Tailor Shop
You receive the depicted good from the Goods Market. You cannot play this action if there is no Goods Tile of the depicted 
type left in the Goods Market.
Reederei 
Die Reederei bringt 
1 Entwicklungspunkt.
Shipping Line
You receive 1 Development 
Point.
Brauerei 
Die Brauerei bringt 2 Münzen ein.
Brewery
You receive 2 coins from the 
supply.
Windmühle 
Die Windmühle bringt 2 Münzen 
sowie 1 Entwicklungspunkt.
Windmill
You receive 2 coins from the 
supply and 1 Development Point.
Bibliothek 
Die Bibliothek bringt 
2 Ent wick lungs punkte.
Library
You receive 2 Development Points.
Apotheke 
Die Apotheke kann durch jedes beliebige Personen-Plättchen aktiviert 
werden. Der Spieler zahlt dann bis zu 3 Münzen (1, 2 oder 3) und darf pro 
Münze 1 Feld auf der Entwicklungsleiste vorrücken.
Pharmacy
You can activate the Pharmacy with any Character Tile. As the action, you 
may spend up to 3 coins to advance on the Development Track. For each 
coin you spend (min. 1), you may move your marker one space to the right.
Ratskeller
Der Ratskeller bringt 4 Münzen.
Cellar
You receive 4 coins from the 
supply.
Kämmerei
Die Kämmerei bringt 1 Münze für 
jedes eigene gebaute Kontor.
Ofﬁ ce
You receive 1 coin for each 
Trading Station you built.

– 23 –
Sakristei 
Die Sakristei schützt vor den Auswirkungen 
eines Ereignisses. Der Spieler kann sich 
damit vor unangenehmen Ereignissen 
wie z.B. vor Ernte, Steuern oder Pest der 
laufenden Runde schützen. Der Mönch, der 
die Sakristei aktiviert, wird in der Phase 
„Ereignis“ zurück in den Gefolgsleutebeutel 
gelegt (anstatt die Auswirkung des 
Ereignisses zu befolgen).
Sacristy
The Sacristy can protect you from negative 
events (like Harvest, Taxes, or Plague) if it is 
activated. During the Event Phase, remove 
the Monk from the Sacristy and put the tile 
back into your bag instead of suffering the 
negative effects of the event in play.
Laboratorium
Das Laboratorium bringt 1 Tech nik-
plättchen, das auf ein beliebiges 
Aktionsfeld (außer für Mönche) 
gelegt werden darf. Es müssen die 
Regeln für Technik beachtet werden. 
Das Technikplättchen darf auch 
auf einem Feld des Laboratoriums 
platziert werden.
Laboratory
You receive a Technology Tile that you 
may place on an Action Space of your 
choice (except for Monk Spaces). The 
usual rules for Technology Tiles apply. 
You may place the Technology Tile on 
the Laboratory if you want.
Pulverturm
In den Pulverturm dürfen 1 oder 2 beliebige Personenplättchen 
während der Phase 3 „Gefolgsleute“ gelegt werden (erweitert 
den Markt um 2 Ablagefelder). Diese Personen dürfen entweder 
während der Planungsphase auf Aktionsfelder gesetzt werden 
(bei 2 Personen beide oder nur eine) oder während der 
Aktionsphase direkt vom Pulverturm aus zu den segensreichen 
Werken entsendet werden (bei 2 Personen dürfen beide in 
einer Aktion entsendet werden). Die eigenen Gefolgsleute 
(in Spielerfarbe) dürfen nicht zu den segensreichen Werken 
entsendet werden.
Gunpowder Tower
The Gunpowder Tower expands your Market by 2 spaces. During 
Phase 3: “Followers”, you can place 1 or 2 Character Tiles on the 
Gunpowder Tower. During the Planning Phase, you can place one 
or both of these tiles on Action Spaces, or use them for Beneﬁ cial 
Deeds during the Action Phase. (You can use both of these 
tiles for Beneﬁ cial Deeds in one action.) You may not use the 
Followers of your color for Beneﬁ cial Deeds.
Kräutergarten 
Wer den Kräutergarten besitzt 
kann Handwerker, Händler oder 
Bauern durch Schiffer ersetzen. 
Herb Garden
As the owner of the Herb Garden, 
you can use Boatmen in place of 
Craftsmen, Traders, and Farmers.
Hospital 
Beim Hospital erhält der Spieler 
so viele Münzen ausgezahlt 
wie es seinem aktuellen 
Entwicklungsstand entspricht.
Hospital
You receive a number of coins 
from the supply equal to your 
current Development Status.
Schule 
Wer die Schule besitzt, kann alle 
Personen außer Mönche durch 
Gelehrte ersetzen.
School
As the owner of the School, you 
can use Scholars in place of other 
Character Tiles but Monks.
Pferdewagen
Ziehe mit dem Pferdewagen 
über Land zur nächsten Stadt 
und sammle eine Ware ein, falls 
vorhanden.
Horse Wagon
Move your Merchant Token along 
a Road to an adjacent town and 
collect one good if available.
Badehaus 
Der Spieler zieht 3 Personen aus seinem Beutel und sucht 2 davon aus, die er sofort auf Aktionsfeldern platziert. (Das 
Badehaus darf dabei nicht erneut belegt werden.) Die 3. Person wandert anschließend zusammen mit der Person, die die 
Aktion ausgelöst hat, in den Gefolgsleutebeutel. Kann der Spieler von den gezogenen Personen nicht 2 auf Aktionsfelder 
legen, so wird nur eine bzw. keine Person platziert und die restlichen wandern zurück in den Gefolgsleutebeutel. 
Bathhouse
Draw 3 Character Tiles from your bag and choose 2 of them. Immediately place the chosen tiles on appropriate Action 
Spaces. (You cannot place these tiles on the Bathhouse.) Put the third tile you have drawn as well as the Follower from the 
Bathhouse back into your bag. If you cannot place 2 of the drawn tiles on Action Spaces, only place one or none and put 
the rest back into your bag.

– 24 –
Author: Reiner Stockhausen
Illustrations: Klemens Franz | atelier198
Translation: Grzegorz Kobiela
Lektorat/Proofreading: Stefan Malz
© dlp games 2014
www.dlp-games.de
E-mail: info@dlp-games.de
More thrilling boardgames from dlp games:
Noch mehr Spannung am Spieltisch von dlp games:
Spielmaterial 
 1 großer Spielplan 
 1 kleiner Spielplan (Segensreiche Werke)
 4 Spielertableaus
 4 Stoffsäckchen (Gefolgsleutebeutel)
 4 Händlerﬁ guren
 40 Kontore
 28 Holzwürfel
 104 Personenplättchen 
 90 Waren 
 
 
– 24 x Getreide
 
 
– 21 x Käse
 
 
– 18 x Wein
 
 
– 15 x Wolle
 
 
– 12 x Brokat
 16 Technik-Plättchen
 14 Bürger-Plättchen
 47 Münzen
 20 Ortskarten 
 18 Stundenglaskarten 
 2 Übersichtskarten 
 1 Startspielerplättchen
 1 Spielregel
Components 
 1 Large Game Board
 1 Small “Beneﬁ cial Deeds” Board
 4 Player Boards
 4 Followers Bags
 4 Merchant Tokens
 40 Trading Stations
 28 Wooden Cubes
 104 Character Tiles 
 90 Goods
 
 
– 24 x Grain
 
 
– 21 x Cheese
 
 
– 18 x Wine
 
 
– 15 x Wool
 
 
– 12 x Brocade
 16 Technology Tiles
 14 Citizen Tiles
 47 Coins
 20 Place Tiles 
 18 Hour Glass Tiles
 2 Overview Cards 
 1 Start Player Token
 1 rulebook