Get playing QUICKLY - read this card FIRST 
PREPARE FOR PLAY: Punch out Person Counter "A," only, 
from the die-cut set of Counters and distribute one to each player. 
Disregard remaining Person Counters for the Basic Game. Place 
these components in view: LOST Scenario Card No. 1, the inner 
box lid showing the Mapboard Movement Chart, the die, and the 
mapboard itself. For the Basic Game, disregard Life Level Cards, 
and remaining Scenario Cards. 
HOW TO WIN: Be the first player to move his Person Counter off 
any edge of the mapboard. 
HOW TO START: Place each player's Person Counter "A" in the 
middle of the mapboard on the hexagon (hex) marked "BASE NO. 
5." Determine sequence of player turns simply by roll of the die. 
(High roll goes first, second high roll goes second, etc.) 
HOW TO PLAY: As this is a Basic Game, you need be concerned 
with only two things: 1) Direction of movement, and 2) How far 
you may move. (Ignore "Necessities" and "Wilderness Encounters" 
shown on the Scenario Card.) 
1) DIRECTION: 
If you were actually lost in the wilderness 
somewhere, chances are you would have very little idea of 
direction. This is reflected in the game. So, at the beginning of 
each player's turn, he refers to the Direction Ability chart 
printed on Scenario Card No. 1 and rolls the die. He must then 
move his Person Counter in the direction stated. 
2) HOW FAR YOU MAY MOVE: The number "6" printed on 
Person Counter "A" states how many movement points it can 
spend to travel cross-country in each turn. In real life, people 
can travel farther in a given time limit across clear terrain than 
across mountains, rough terrain, swamps, etc. This is reflected 
in the game. The Mapboard Movement Chart printed on the 
inner box-lid states how many movement points it costs to 
enter each mapboard hex. For example, since it only costs one 
movement point to enter a Clear terrain hex, you could move 
your Person Counter 6 hexes in one turn as long as all 6 hexes 
were Clear terrain hexes. On the other hand, since it costs 2 
movement points to enter a Woods/Rough hex, you could only 
move a total of 3 hexes per turn through Woods/Rough terrain. 

You may move through any combination of varying terrain in 
one turn providing you have the proper number of movement 
points to spend. For example, you could spend your 6 movement 
points by entering a Clear terrain hex, (1), then a River hex (3), 
then another Clear terrain hex (1), and then a Ford hex (1). 
Suppose, however, that the final move would take you into a 
Woods/Rough hex instead of a Ford hex; you would not be 
allowed to enter the Woods/Rough hex because it requires 2 
movement points which you did not have left to spend. Thus you 
would only be able to spend 5 movement points in this particular 
turn. Unused movement points cannot be accumulated and used on 
later turns. 
You MUST move as far as your movement points will take 
you, even if you don't really want to go that far. 
If you begin your turn or happen to land on a TRAIL hex 
somewhere in the middle of your turn, you have the option to 
follow that Trail regardless of how it bends and winds and still be 
considered moving "in straight line only." Thus if you are required 
to move in "straight line only," you are allowed to follow a Trail 
as far as your movement points will take you. If you emerge from 
a Trail with movement points left over, you have the option of 
continuing in any direction even if you are restricted to "straight 
line only" movement for that turn. You may, of course, ignore a 
Trail and continue across it in a true "straight line only" 
movement. 
It costs you 3 movement points to enter a RIVER hex, 
regardless of whether you are crossing the river or traveling along 
the river. You may, however, negate this cost by crossing a river at 
a FORD in which event it only costs you 1 movement point. Note, 
however, that moving into a Ford hex at other than its entrance 
hex, such as another River hex, costs you 3 movement points 
instead of 1 movement point. 
STRATEGY: In the Basic Game, speed is the most essential 
element. Since your Person Counter will be limited in the direction 
it can travel by the Direction Ability Table, you must plan ahead, 
making sure that you are always moving in the general direction of 
open, clear terrain. Use trails whenever possible as these are 
tremendously faster than cross-country travel. Wherever possible, 
avoid moving towards the mountain or desert areas: these can slow 
you up to the point where you may only travel two or three hexes 
per turn. Plan ahead! Know where your Person Counter is going to 
be at least one turn ahead. Good Luck! 
(When you have become familiar with this Basic Game, go on 
to the regular game contained in the Rules of Play folder. Included 
therein 
are 
rules 
that provide for even MORE realism and 
excitement. Once you have mastered the Basic Game, you will 
have no difficulty with the regular game.) 
8950005 
Copyright 1973 Stackpole Books 
R9749 

INTRODUCTION 
OUTDOOR SURVIVAL is a simulation of the 
essential conditions for staying alive when 
unprotected man is beset by his environment. 
It 
recreates real 
world conditions of the 
wilderness, and places trained and untrained 
people in emergency situations. The players 
have varying abilities to make the necessary 
decisions for survival. This is done through a 
number of scenario situations of increasing 
complexity, which state the abilities of the 
Player(s) to survive, and their objectives. 
Each scenario contains a "To Win" section 
explaining the goal of that particular game. 
These may be solo (for one person) or com-
petitive (for more than one player). Each turn 
in the game represents one day; each hexagon 
on the mapboard represents a width of five 
kilometers (three miles). 
OUTDOOR SURVIVAL is actually five 
different games. LOST is the "basic" game in 
which you must get out of the wilderness 
before lack of food and water ends your 
survival ability. In SURVIVAL you must get 
across a large wilderness area before your 
opponent. 
In 
SEARCH 
find 
someone who's lost before the other search 
parties do. In RESCUE you must not only 
find the lost party, but by using your survival 
skills, get them out of the wilderness. In 
PURSUE you must, as the escapee, get out of 
the wilderness into a neutral country or, as 
the pursuer capture the escapee. Or, in an 
adaptation of this scenario, one or more 
players can take the part of hunters while one 
player assumes the role of their quarry. 
GAME COMPONENTS: 
1. Rules of Play Folder_ 
2. Primer on survival tips 
3. 22" x 24" Mapboard of "the Wilderness" 
4. One set of die cut playing pieces represent-
ing persons. 
5. Mapboard Movement Chart — printed on 
Lid of Inside game box. 
6. Five scenario cards 
7. Four Identical Life Level Index chart cards 
8. One die 
9. Basic Game Rules Card: Newcomers to 
simulation gaming should play the Basic 
Game first. Once mastered, move onto the 
regular game described in this Rules of 
Play Folder. 
2nd Printing: March 1973 
Rules of Play 

Parts & Brief Description 
THE PRIMER 
Survival tips; but not used in the play of the 
game. For reading before and after playing. 
THE MAPBOARD 
The mapboard is a representation of approxi-
mately 13,200 square miles of wilderness —a 
tract that includes all of the deterrents in-
herent within, such as woods, rough terrain, 
desert, swamp, river, and mountains. A hexag-
onal grid is superimposed to determine loca-
tion and movement much in the manner of 
squares on a chess board. We will refer to 
these "squares" hereafter as "hexes." 
DIE CUT PLAYING PIECES 
Each set of colored pieces represents one 
person, hereafter called "Person counters." 
The letters A through O reflect the physical 
condition of that person. We will hereafter 
refer to physical condition as "Life Level." 
Life Level " A " is the peak condition which 
can deteriorate if that person's daily require-
ments of food and water are not satisfied. The 
number printed on each Person Counter is its 
"Movement 
Allowance" 
it tells how 
many clear terrain mapboard hexes a person 
can move through when he is in that life 
level. For example, a person starting out in 
Life Level " A " can move through 6 clear 
hexes per turn. However, if the physical con-
dition has been weakened to, say Life Level 
" D , " he could move only 4 clear terrain hexes 
per turn. Each player also has a "Food Index" 
counter and a "Water Index" Counter which 
are used on the Life Level Index Chart cards. 
Counters labeled "Life Level Index" are used 
only when employing optional rules. Set them 
aside for now. 
LIFE LEVEL INDEX CHART 
Each player takes one chart, all charts being 
identical. Before starting the first turn, each 
player places all of his Person counters on the 
r o w 
boxes 
labeled 
"LIFE 
LEVEL 
INDEX." 
He also 
places a 
Water 
Index 
Counter on the "Start Here" box of the Water 
Index row, doing likewise with his Food 
Index counter. 
MAPBOARD MOVEMENT CHART 
This chart is printed on the lid cover of the 
inside game box and should be kept in view at 
all times, or until such time as it has become 
memorized by 
each 
player. 
It determines 
exactly how many hexes a person may travel 
through, depending upon the "difficulty" of 
specific terrain. 
BASES AND OUTPOSTS 
The "houses" on the mapboard are bases. 
These serve simply as markers to set up 
Person counters at the beginning of a scena-
rio. Outposts are bases of unlimited supply. 
Players use blank counters to indicate these 
outposts. They are immobile, and may be 
placed anywhere on the board at the begin-
ning of the situation as called for by the 
respective scenario. 
SCENARIO CARDS 
There are actually five different games in 
OUTDOOR S U R V I V A L , graduating in ex-
pertise from No. 1 to No. 5. Instructions for 
play relevant to an individual scenario are 
printed on each card itself. When selecting a 
specific scenario, it must be kept out on the 
table in easy view of each player. 
1. LOST — This recreates the situation of 
someone who, while camping or hiking has 
lost his way and run out of supplies. This 
situation 
could also apply to someone 
stranded in a desolate area through an 
accident. 
2. SURVIVAL - This situation is actually 
something of a variation on the LOST 
situation. In this case the lost people must 
traverse a wide tract of wilderness in order 
to get home. This situation could also 
represent a "race" between people who 
like to live dangerously. 
3. SEARCH — This 
is 
one 
most 
common real life situations. Someone is 
lost and you have to go looking for him. 
This situation assumes that once the lost 
party 
is found, transportation 
can 
be 
provided to lift rescued and rescuer to 
civilization. 
4. RESCUE - A variation 
SEARCH 
which the rescuer, having found the lost 
party, guides them to safety through the 
wilderness. For the search phase of this 
game it is assumed that the searchers have 
the appropriate equipment and supplies. 
5. PURSUE — Offers 
two 
adaptations 
on 
which players can add their own varia-
tions. For the war game buff, this game 
provides the ingredients for an escaped-
prisoner-of-war-chased-by-guards situation. 
For 
outdoorsman, 
adaptation 
applies to hunters pursuing a beast. 
It is suggested that the WILDERNESS 
ENCOUNTER situations on the reverse side 
of each scenario card be used only after 
becoming familiar with the play of several 
scenarios. 
Then 
consult 
OPTIONAL 
RULES section of this folder. 

How to Play 
SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
Step 1: Select one of the five scenarios. It 
should be kept in full view, or passed 
around to each player when it be-
comes that player's turn 
to play. 
Place Person counters on the map-
board where so stated by the scenario 
card. Place correctly all Life Level 
counters. 
Step 2: Determine (by roll of a die) the order 
in which each player takes his turn. 
The player rolling the higher number 
moves first. Game length is deter-
mined in the " T O W I N " section of 
the scenario card. 
Step 3: Refer to the DIRECTION ABILITY 
chart of the scenario card and roll the 
die. This tells you in which direction 
you must move. How far you can 
move is determined by your coun-
ter's movement allowance (the print-
ed number). 
Step 4: Refer to the NECESSITIES chart of 
the scenario card. Then determine 
whether or 
not the 
current day's 
needs for food and water have been 
satisfied as a result of your move. 
Adjust your Food Index and Water 
Index counters accordingly 
on the 
Life Level Index card. 
Step 5: If movement of your Food Index and 
Water Index counters have triggered a 
change in your Person counter Life 
Level, make the proper exchange be-
tween the Person counter that is in 
play on the mapboard and one that is 
on the Life Level Index row of your 
Life Level Index card. 
Optional: (Steps 6 and 7 are for use with the 
optional rule only. 
Step 6: Having completed your normal move-
ment turn, roll the die once. If you 
roll a 1, 2, 3, or 4 your turn has 
ended and your opponent may now 
return to step 3 and proceed nor-
mally. However, if you roll a 5 or 6 
must play the WILDERNESS 
ENCOUNTER chart. You then an-
nounce which of the three columns 
you'll play (NATURAL HAZARDS, 
ANIMAL/INSECT, or PERSONAL) 
and then roll the die. Adjust your 
Food Index and Water Index coun-
ters accordingly. 
Step 7: Repeat Step 5. 
Step 8: Repeat steps 3 to 7 until game is 
concluded. 
(F) 
If forced to go off the board by the 
dictates of the Random Direction 
chart when not desirous of doing 
so, you may opt to remain station-
ary instead. 
(G) Person counters may never make a 
o 
turn, that is, re-enter a hex 
just 
left. 
Counters 
move 
straight in the new direction after 
turning. 
They may turn at any 
point after the first hex is entered, 
but it is never required for them to 
turn. 
TRAIL MOVEMENT 
Whenever a unit moves into a hex containing 
a trail, the player has the option of ignoring 
the dictates of the Direction Ability chart and 
continuing his movement along that trail. 
Cases: 
(A) 
(B) 
(C) 
(D) 
(E) 
Turns in 
incurred by 
bends or twists in a trail do not 
count against movement limitations 
as called for by the Direction Abil-
ity chart. In other words, move-
ment along a trail is considered a 
straight line. When you land on a 
trail hex you may follow that trail 
regardless of turns. 
When leaving a trail you must move 
straight ahead in the direction that 
the trail points to, unless you have 
a "turning" ability in that turn due 
to your roll on the Direction Abil-
ity chart. 
When traveling on a trail you may 
ignore the results of the Random 
Direction chart. However, you still 
roll for the Direction Ability chart 
to see what your "turning" capa-
bilities are should you wish to leave 
the trail that turn or should the 
trail end. 
If you leave a trail hex after having 
entered that hex at the trail move-
ment rate of 1 point per hex, in a 
direction other than that which the 
trail points to, you do so at the 
movement cost of the other terrain 
in that trail hex. Exception: If the 
cost 
terrain 
moved into is greater than that of 
the terrain in the exited trail hex, 
you always use the greater cost of 
the two. 
You may change direction when 
leaving a trail only if the Direction 
Ability chart gives you a "turning" 
capability for that turn. 

HOW TO MOVE PERSON COUNTERS 
Person Counters must be moved as far as 
possible 
its direction 
instructions, and 
with the 
limitations of its movement allowance and the 
Mapboard Movement Chart. Procedure: Move 
each unit individually, tracing the path of 
movement through the hexes. 
CASES: 
(A) Movement is calculated in terms of 
hexes. Basically each unit expends 
one movement point of its total 
(point) 
allowance for 
each hex entered. To enter some 
types of hexes requires more than 
one movement point; see the Map-
board Movement Chart printed on 
the Box Lid. 
(B) 
(C) 
(D) 
In any turn, the Player may decline 
to move his Person counter at all, 
and remain stationary in a hex. This 
must be decided before he rolls for 
his 
instructions, 
unless 
stated otherwise on the Direction 
Ability chart. 
Person counters must be moved in 
their 
instructions, as given to them by 
DIRECTION 
ABILITY chart 
and a die roll. 
Person counters may move over dif-
ferent types of terrain as long as 
they 
have 
sufficient 
points to enter that particular type 
of terrain. Thus, a Person counter 
with a movement factor of 2 could 
not move at all if surrounded by 
mountain or swamp hexes. 
Person counters must be moved in 
the direction instructed. Movement 
may be in two ways: straight, with 
no turns; or straight with turns. 
Examples of these are: 
straight, no turns: 
straight, with turn: 
(FT 
Any disagreement over the location 
of exit hexes or other such ambi-
guities 
may 
be 
resolved 
by 
a 
friendly roll of the die. 
(G) 
You may enter a trail hex at the 
movement cost of one only if you 
enter that trail hex through a hex 
side which is clear terrain or pierced 
by a trail. 
FORDS 
Fords do not have the same qualities as trails. 
They merely negate the river in that particular 
hex for purposes of movement across the 
river. In other words, you may not change 
direction on a ford hex unless the Direction 
Ability chart gives you a "turning" capability 
for that turn. 
RIVERS 
The cost of entering a river hex is always 3 
movement points regardless of whether or not 
river 
is actually crossed. 
Exception: 
Swamp hexes which include rivers are trav-
ersed at a cost of 4 movement points, not 3. 
HOW TO USE THE LIFE 
LEVEL INDEX CHART 
Each player has his own card and places his 
own Person counters, Food Index, and Water 
Index counters where indicated. 
WATER INDEX: At the end of each turn 
in which the current day's needs for water are 
not met, (Note: swamp squares may not be 
used to satisfy water needs) that player must 
move his Water 
Index counter one block 
downward (to the right). Blocks are separated 
by "trigger points" (where it might say "1 
Life Level"). Whenever the downward move-
ment of a Water Index counter crosses such 
trigger points, that player's Person counter 
loses the stated life level. That means he must 
replace his Person counter now on the map-
board with that of the next letter shown on 
the Life Level Index row. For example, if at 
the end of the first turn (each turn represents 
one day) Player No. 1 did not satisfy that first 
day's needs for water, he must move his Water 
Index counter into the next block down from 
the "Start Here" block. That move does not 
trigger a life level change. However, if he does 
not satisfy his current day's needs for water in 
his second turn, then he must move his Water 
Index counter down to the third block. That 
move does trigger a life level change. Thus 
he also has to exchange Person counter (A) 
with Person counter (B) on the mapboard. 
You will note that Person counter (B)'s move-
ment allowance 
reduces that player to a 

movement allowance of 5 hexes per turn 
instead of the previous 6. 
It is possible that a person could trigger a 
change in life level on both the Food and 
Water Indexes on the same turn. In such 
cases, the effects are added together and the 
resulting sum is subtracted from the Life 
Level Index. In cases where a player is able to 
satisfy more than just the current day's needs, 
he may recover life levels by passing trigger 
points in the opposite manner (upward, or to 
the left). When that player is instructed to 
recover steps on the Water Index, he moves 
his Water Index counter to the left one block 
for each step he is to recover. He then 
substitutes for his Person counter accordingly 
if a trigger point has been crossed. For exam-
ple, if a player's Water Index counter is on the 
fifth block, and he is instructed to "recover 2 
steps," that counter is moved back to the 3rd 
block. And if his mapboard counter is at Life 
Level " D , " it is replaced with Life Level " C . " 
FOOD LEVEL: 
Treat the same as for 
Water Index. You will note, however, that 
one's physical condition deteriorates at a 
much faster rate from lack of water than from 
lack of food. Again, as with water, it is 
possible to recover lost life levels. However, in 
no case may food or water indexes "regain" 
food or water further to the left than the 
"start here" boxes. 
L I F E 
L E V E L 
INDEX: 
Counters 
A 
through 0 reflect that player's physical condi-
tion. No more than one of the 15 may be on 
the mapboard at any one time. If a player has 
counter 0 on the mapboard, and he is requir-
ed to lose one or more life levels, he has not 
"survived" and is automatically out of the 
game. 
You are NOW 
ready to play OUTDOOR 
SURVIVAL. "Examples of Play" (below) are 
for ready reference. "Optional Rules" (at 
right) may be adopted to add realism to the 
play of the basic game. 
For current replacement parts list send a 
stamped, 
self-addressed 
envelope 
marked 
"parts list" to: The Avalon Hill Game Com-
pany, 4517 Harford Road, Balto., Md. 21214. 
Optional Rules 
WILDERNESS ENCOUNTER CHART 
The Wilderness Encounter aspect is adopted 
at step 6. At the end of your normal move in 
each turn, roll the die once to determine if 
play the Wilderness Encounter 
chart. If you roll a 1, 2, 3, or 4 your turn has 
ended and your opponent should proceed 
immediately to step 3. If you roll a 5 or 6 you 
must play the Wilderness Encounter chart. 
Call out — verbally — one of the three 
encounters you wish to take a chance on. 
Then roll the die once, and cross index the die 
roll 
proper 
encounter 
column. 
Adjust the Food and Water Indexes and the 
Life Level counters accordingly. Your turn 
ends and play continues in like manner to the 
next player. You may never ignore the gains 
or losses called for by the Wilderness Encoun-
ter chart, even if you currently occupy a food 
or water hex. 
When the Wilderness Encounter chart calls 
for the loss of a "life level," the Food and 
Water Indexes are not affected. Simply re-
place the person counter with a lower Life 
Level counter making no additional changes 
in the Food or Water Indexes. This simulates 
a 
weakening 
condition 
resulting from 
causes other than lack of food or water. 
You will note that we give you a choice in 
the selection of the encounter for the sake of 
adding strategy to the play of the game. But 
in real life, travelers would not have this 
control over Wilderness Encounters. If you 
wish to simulate this aspect, substitute another 
die roll for the choice: a roll of 1 = Natural 
Hazards; 
2 & 3 = Animal-Insect 
encounters: 
4, 5 & 6 = Personal elements. 
You will note that the three encounter 
options provide for a variety 
of decision 
making ranging from the conservative to the 
panic stage. They are, of course, slanted 
according to the level of players' expertise in 
wilderness skills. 
Encounters 
reflected 
under 
Natural 
Hazards include forest fires, flash floods, and 
inclement weather. Negative elements under 
Animal/Insect Encounters involve poisonous 
snake and insect bites, wrecked shelters and 
supplies ruined by marauding animals, with 
positive elements reflecting a person's ability 
to successfully obtain animals and insects for 
food. Under Personal Encounter, the negative 
elements reflect bodily injury, and consump-
tion of polluted water and poisonous food, 
positive elements showing a person's 
ability to accumulate food and water surplus, 
provide shelters, build fires, and apply proper 
medical treatment to one's self. 
LIFE LEVEL INDEX COUNTER: 
Whenever 
Wilderness Encounter chart 
calls for the loss of a life level, it may be 
assumed that this is the result of an injury 
which can not be "healed" during the course 
of the game. When using this optional rule the 
Life Level Index counter is placed on box 
" A " on the Life Level Index to start the 
game. For each loss of life level called for 
explicitly by the Wilderness Encounter chart, 
the Life Level Index counter is moved one 
" b o x " further to the right. The Life Level 
Index counter simply represents the highest 
or "peak" stage that a player's Player counter 
may be at during the game. If the Life Level 
Index counter is on "box B" on the Life 
Level Index, then you may never "regain" life 
levels past the " B " stage. Food and Water 
Indexes may continue to be moved upward 
regardless of the Life Level Index counter but 
"trigger points" are ignored if the resulting 
gain in life levels would call for the use of a 
Person counter greater than that allowed by 
the Life Level Index counter. 
BASES: If you find that survival in any of the 
scenarios is too difficult to achieve, you may 
wish to consider each "base" hex to have the 
same advantages as a combination food and 
water hex. Furthermore, by remaining on that 
particular hex for two additional turns, you 
may regain one food and one water step. This 
optional rule would be most useful in the 
SURVIVAL scenario. 
Scenario 
6: 
One of the most interesting 
aspects of OUTDOOR SURVIVAL 
is the 
opportunity it provides for devising your own 
scenarios. 
Once 
have 
mastered 
mechanics of play, many additional ideas, 
providing more testing of outdoor knowledge 
and skills, will come to you. Integrating these 
situations with the standard games will add 
pleasure and skill-sharpening to the playing. 
To illustrate this possibility we will briefly 
outline the rules for a "man vs. beast" pursuit 
scenario below. 
For the purposes of this illustration we 
will assume the "beast" to be a whitetail buck 
and the pursuer a deer hunter. To reflect the 
greater speed and agility of the deer, double 
the movement factors of the animal's "person 
counter" for all levels. The animal satisfies its 
current day's food needs every time it ends 
movement on a plain or forest square. Water 
needs are satisfied by passing through or 
ending movement on a catch-basin, stream 
hex, or swamp square. The deer, not having 
the reasoning powers of a man, must roll the 
ability 
chart 
used 
Lost 
Scenario on every turn. The deer may not 
leave the board — the game continues until 
either the prey is caught or the pursuer is 
reduced to life level G — at which point he 
admits defeat and gives up the hunt. The 
hunter, for his part, uses the direction ability 
and necessities chart found in the Search 
scenario. To successfully conclude the scena-
rio, the hunter must occupy a clear terrain 
hex adjacent to the deer (at which point it is 
assumed his rifle will bring the hunt to a 
successful conclusion) or else actually occupy 
the same non-clear terrain hex as the deer 
(i.e., swamp, mountains, forest). In addition, 
to simulate the difficulty of a rifle shot in 
heavily wooded terrain, force the hunter to 
roll a 1, 2, or 3 to make a successful shot 
whenever the hunter is in a woods hex. 
It must be emphasized that the above 
"scenario" should, by no means, be consid-
ered a hard and fast rule. It was included only 
to show you the possibilities for innovation 
that exist in the creation of new scenarios. 
Indeed, the creation of "variant" scenarios is 
one 
reasons 
why 
OUTDOOR 
SURVIVAL is such an excellent game for 
solitaire 
play. 
It's 
open-endedness 
should 
make it a favorite for those who lack oppo-
nents. 
HINT: Another varient on the same theme 
could be easily constructed by changing the 
scale of the mapboard to 1 hex equals 100 
yards, thus paving the way for chance tables 
which could reflect the accuracies of rifle fire 
at ranges of 100 through 500 yards. As you 
can see, the possibilities are endless, and the 
situations limited only by the powers of one's 
imagination. 

No. 1 — I2 
may not move because it is 
surrounded by terrain requiring a movement 
expenditure of " 3 " to enter. 
No. 5 — A6 has no turning capability. How-
ever, he elects to follow the trail as "move-
ment along a trail is considered a straight 
line." Note that although he ends his turn 
going in a direction other than that which he 
started, he has not violated his turning 
capabilities. 
No. 2 — B5 is not allowed to make any turns. 
He proceeds straight north until reaching the 
trail on square A. He then abandons his 
northerly direction to follow the trail. He 
may do this because "Movement along a trail 
is considered a straight line." 
No. 4 - H2 may cross the river to " A " due to 
the effects of the ford at "B." 
No. 6 — B5 may move from square B to 
square C with an expenditure of only one MP 
because it used the full woods expenditure (2) 
to reach square B and hence is not subject to 
the rules of movement governing trails in this 
instance. 
No. 8 — To move from A to B would cost two 
movement points. To move from A to C 
would cost 4; one to enter square D on the 
trail, and 3 to leave the trail for square C 
because the trail does not lead to square C 
and the counter moved onto square D at the 
special trail rate of one MP. 
No. 9 - A6 exits from square D at a cost of 3 
movement points rather than the " 2 " cost of 
the forest terrain in square D due to the rules 
governing exit from a trail hex (case D). 
Examples of Play 

No. 3 - D 4 must stop on " B " because it costs 
3 movement points to enter a river square and 
he has only 2 remaining. Note that if he had a 
turning capability he could proceed to " D . " 
No. 7 — A6 is able to make one direction 
change. He executes this change at square E. 
Movement Cost: from A to B 
is one 
from A to B to C is two 
from A to B to D is four 
from E to B to D is four 
from E to B 
is three 
Outdoor 
Survival 
Primer 
This 24-page booklet, based on the 
best and latest of what the experts 
know, 
fully 
illustrates 
in text and 
pictures the techniques of: direction 
f i n d i n g , 
signaling, 
making 
shelter, 
building 
fires, 
dealing 
natural 
hazards, 
first 
aid, 
living 
off 
land . . . and lists basic supplies needed 
for a planned wilderness adventure. 
Also included is a bibliography of the 
very popular Stackpole Books used as a 
basis for translating wilderness exper-
tise into the design elements of this 
game. 
OUTDOOR SURVIVAL 
Copyright 1972 Stackpole Books 
Designed by Avalort Hill for Stackpole Books, 
Cameron & Kelker Streets, Harrisburg, PA. 
Other 
Avalon Hill 
Games 
OUTDOOR SURVIVAL is just one of a full 
line of adult games utilizing new and original 
concepts 
designed 
by 
Avalon Hill. Adult 
games represent the fastest growing entertain-
ment medium today. Avalon Hill has pio-
neered the adult game craze, and as leader in 
the field, offers a complete range of authen-
tic games tailored to real life drama. Be sure 
to read the Games of Logic brochure included 
in this game-set. 
By sending in the Registration Card assembled 
with this game you will qualify for our FREE 
answering service. Questions on play will be 
answered by our R&D staff at no charge. 
Please be sure to enclose a stamped, self-
addressed envelope. 
THE AVALON HILL GAME COMPANY 
4 5 1 7 Harford Road, Baltimore, Md. 21214 
8950001 
R9802 

Where to find Skill Information .. 
Direction Finding 
Page 3 
• how to read a compass • orienting a map with a compass * using a watch as makeshift 
compass • how to improvise a compass • methods using sun and stars • landscape 
features that reveal direction 
Water Purification 
Page 5 
• boiling * halazone tablets • iodine water purification tablets • how to recognize 
poisonous water holes 
Obtaining Water 
Page 5 
• finding water by reading the landscape • water from vegetation • how to make a solar 
still in desert country • water from snow and ice 
Catching Fish 
Page 6 
• ways to improvise fishline • where to look for natural bait " makeshift fishhooks 
• spearing • traps " stranding fish * using bare hands 
Killing Game 
Page 7 
• jacking • how to drive animals from their burrows • rabbits • porcupines • turtles 
• snares * deadfalls • primitive weapons for catching and hitting birds 
Tracking Game 
Page 9 
• tracks of common North American game animals • the problem of dead end tracks 
Butchering Game 
Page 10 
• improvised cutting tool • skinning 
Building a Fire 
Page 10 
• what to use for kindling • how to make kindling • making little sticks from big 
limbs without knife or ax • lighting with a single match • how to proceed in cold 
weather • ways to start a fire without matches 
Obtaining Shelter 
Page 11 
• nature's ready-made shelters • trenches • shelters made with snow • lean-tos 
Distress Signals 
Page 12 
• signal fires • universally recognized distress signals • how to send messages in Morse 
Code • signaling with improvised flag • how to signal an airplane with a mirror 
First Aid 
Page 13 
• medical kit for wilderness use • insect bites • poison ivy, oak, and sumac • snakebite 
• heat exhaustion • heat stroke • frostbite * sprains * shoulder dislocation " dislocated 
jaw • hip dislocation • arm fractures • thigh bone fracture • other fractures "stopping 
bleeding and preventing infection from cuts * shock • arm-lift and mouth-to-mouth 
methods of resuscitation • food poisoning 
Dealing with Natural Hazards 
Page 21 
• how to predict storms by watching clouds, sky, dew, frost, and smoke • forest fire 
danger signals • how to avoid flash floods • ways to escape from mire, quicksand, and 
snowslides * minimizing the danger of travel on ice-covered streams • handling animal 
encounters 
Equipment and Supplies 
Page 22 
• canteen • food • guns and ammunition • fishing gear • tents and plastic shelters 
• sleeping bag • matches • flashlight • jackknife • compass 
Direction Finding 
In the wilderness, as in civilization, the basic 
necessities are water, food, and shelter. A 
person who is lost or stranded must decide 
whether his chances of obtaining these neces-
sities will be better if he attempts to find his 
way back to civilization or if he stays where 
he is and summons help. If he decides to get 
out by himself, the aid of a compass will be 
invaluable. 
USING A COMPASS 
I S O 
The compass dial is divided into 360 degrees, 
which may be most easily visualized as 360 
possible routes fanning out like wheel spokes 
from its user's location. Compass degrees are 
customarily numbered in a clockwise direc-
tion starting at north. East is one-fourth of 
the way around the dial. East in terms of 
degrees is, then, one-fourth of 360 , or 90 . 
The distance between each of the four cardi-
nal points - north, east, south, and west - is 
the same 90 . South is therefore designated as 
180° and west as 270°. 
Halfway between north and east is called 
northeast, which in terms of degrees is half of 
90 , or 45 . The other corresponding points 
are similarly named: southeast, southwest, 
and northwest. 
Halfway between north and northeast is 
north-northeast, or 22.5 . Halfway between 
northeast and east? East-northeast. Each of 
the four cardinal points always comes first. 
Compasses are even more helpful when 
used together with maps. To orient a map 
with the aid of a compass, however, allowance 
must be made for compass declination, which 
is the difference between true north and 
magnetic north. This variance, caused by the 
fact that compass needles point toward the 
magnetic pole rather than the North Pole, is 
indicated on most local maps. 
Suppose that where you are the compass 
declination is 14 
east of north. An arrow 
marked N verifies that north is at the top of 
your chart, which unless otherwise indicated 
is the case with most maps. Move the map 
until the arrow, or until one side of the 
upright rectangular sheet if there is no such 
mark, points 14 west of compass north. For 
all practical purposes, you can now read the 
map in terms of the surrounding countryside. 
If you do not know the local compass 
declination and it is not marked on the map, 
find the North Star by one of the methods 
described below under Direction Finding by 
Sun and Stars. This star lies almost exactly 
over the North Pole. Then either note im-
mediately the variation between almost exact 
north and where the compass needle is point-
ing, or scratch a line pointing to the North 
Star or indicate such a line by two stakes so 
that you can compare your compass north to 
the thus established north-south mark by 
daylight. 
In the United States and Canada a watch 
can be used as a makeshift compass accurate 
within 8 , provided that: (1) the sun is 
shining brightly enough to throw a shadow, 
(2) the watch is accurately set, and (3) the 
watch shows the local standard Greenwich 
time. Lay the watch face up with the hour 
hand pointing directly toward the sun. To 
check this, hold a twig or pine needle upright 
at the edge of the dial. It should cast a 
shadow directly along the shorter hand. South 
will lie midway along the smaller arc between 
the hour hand and twelve o'clock. At eight 
o'clock in the morning a line drawn from the 
center of the watch through the numeral ten 
will point south. 
Telling Direction by Watch and Sun 
Suppose you do not have a compass? Then 
improvise one. Stroke an ordinary needle in 
one direction with a piece of silk. Rub the 

needle with oil collected by passing thumb 
and forefinger over the nose and forehead. 
Suspend the needle by two thin bits of grass 
or other fiber formed into loops and lower it 
carefully into any body of still water. Cau-
tiously remove the support. The needle, 
floated by surface tension, will turn until it is 
aligned with the north and south magnetic 
poles unless some metal is near enough to 
distract it. If you have stroked the needle 
from head to tip, the head will point north. 
DIRECTION FINDING BY 
BY SUN AND STARS 
Here is a way to find where south is without a 
There is a less accurate but far swifter 
method of telling direction any time the sun 
(or moon) is bright enough to cast a shadow. 
Mark the tip of a pole's shadow. Wait five 
minutes. Then a straight line drawn from the 
shadow's new tip through the first mark will 
run roughly west. 
One of the most accurate direction-finding 
methods employs the North Star, which is 
compass, if it is morning and the sun is 
shining. Drive a short pole into the ground. 
Observe how long a shadow the pole casts. 
Loop a string, lace, piece of straw, etc. around 
the pole. Keep this taut and, holding it at the 
desired length to a sharp stick, draw an arc 
that exactly touches the end of the shadow. 
Mark this point with a stake. 
The shadow of the pole will keep shorten-
ing until noon, at which time it will begin to 
lengthen. Watch until it once more meets the 
arc. Mark that spot with a second stake. A 
line connecting the pole with a point halfway 
between the first and second stakes will point 
due south. 
N 
located almost directly above the North Pole. 
To find this bright star, follow an imaginary 
line through the two stars that form the outer 
edge of the Big Dipper. When the Big Dipper 
is not visible, use the constellation Cassiopeia 
to find the North Star. It will be helpful to 
memorize the relationship between the North 
Star and Cassiopeia, which is always on the 
opposite side of the North Star from the Big 
Dipper and about the same distance away. 
When the North Star is not visible, use any 
star to get a general idea of direction. Select 
two fixed points over which to watch. These 
may be two stakes driven into the ground with 
their tops aligned carefully. If you so observe 
a star for several minutes, it will seem to rise, 
to move to one side or the other, or to sink. If 
the star seems to be rising, it lies generally to 
the east. If the star loops flatly to the right, it 
lies roughly south. A star swinging flatly to 
the left is in the north. A falling star is 
situated in the west. 
DIRECTION FINDING BY 
LANDSCAPE FEATURES 
In cloudy weather, landscape features can be 
used to determine direction. The growth rings 
exposed in standing stumps tend to be widest 
on the sunniest side, which under ideal 
conditions will be on the south. Downfall is 
another valuable sign. Trees generally fall in 
the direction of the prevailing wind. The tops 
Telling Direction by Sun, Pole, and Stakes 
of such trees as hemlocks and pines naturally 
point toward the rising sun, that is, toward 
the east, unless the wind turns them in 
another direction. Plant growth is larger and 
more open on a north slope, and smaller and 
denser along a southern exposure. 
Water Piirification 
A lost or stranded person who has been 
without water for some time and suddenly 
comes upon a source is naturally tempted to 
drink his fill. This is most unwise for, short 
of laboratory tests, there is no way to 
determine whether water is pure. Contam-
inated water can incapacitate anyone for 
travel whether it is used for drinking, rinsing a 
toothbrush, washing food utensils, or cook-
ing. As far as purity is concerned, ice and the 
water obtained from melting ice differ in no 
respect from the water originally frozen. 
Although heat kills germs, cold does not. 
Neither, by the way, does liquor. 
To rid water of germs, boil it for five 
minutes at sea level and an additional minute 
for each additional thousand feet of elevation. 
If you have no utensils for boiling water, 
improvise them. A large shell can be used as a 
container. If there is a small stone with a 
hollow in it, build a fire around it. Water can 
be boiled in a container made from birchbark 
if flames are kept from touching it above the 
water level. To make such a container, fold a 
large rectangle of moist birchbark inward at 
each of its four corners and hold the resulting 
receptacle in shape with wooden skewers. If 
you have a long wide strip of bark, fold it in 
at the two ends to make a container shaped 
like a split log. 
Obtaining Water 
Finding water in the wilderness is less a 
problem than purifying it. Everyone knows 
that water flows downhill and that it en-
courages vegetation, especially such brush and 
shrubs as alder and willow; so look for water 
near the base of hills, where it can many times 
be distinguished in distant ravines and can-
yons by the intensity of plant cover. Follow-
ing game trails in whatever direction they 
become wider and deeper is also a good way 
to find water. 
Not only does vegetation indicate the 
nearness of water; it sometimes is a direct 
source. Rain water may accumulate in the 
large leaves of plants and trees. Look also for 
No purification of water by chemical 
means is as dependable as boiling, but two 
halazone tablets will ordinarily make a quart 
of water safe for human consumption in half 
an hour. If the water is muddy or particularly 
questionable, double the amount of halazone 
and the time. Most sporting goods and drug 
stores sell two-ounce bottles containing 100 
halazone tablets. A drop of tincture of iodine 
will also usually purify a quart of water in 30 
minutes. 
In tropical or subtropical areas, water 
should either be boiled or treated with iodine 
water purification tablets. Use one of these 
tablets to purify a quart of clear water; two 
tablets, if the water is not clear. 
When using any chemical purifier, be sure 
to disinfect all points of human contact with 
the water container. To do this, replace the 
cap loosely after adding the chemical and wait 
five minutes; then shake well, allowing a little 
water to leak out and disinfect the screw 
threads before tightening the cap. 
No method of water purification will 
eliminate poisons in the water. Some water 
holes, as in the southwestern deserts of the 
United States, contain poisons such as arsenic. 
It is easy to recognize such water holes by the 
absence of green vegetation. Animal bones 
may also be scattered about them. 
water in natural basins such as are frequent in 
rocky terrain. 
In the desert, cacti furnish a watery fluid. 
To get this juice, cut off sections of cactus 
and mash them in a container. Then either 
drink any resulting fluid on the spot or pour 
it into a second container and repeat the 
process as often as necessary. If you have no 
utensils, mash the cactus segments one by one 
and suck the pulp. Barrel cactus provides its 
own utensils. Just slice off the top, crush the 
interior to a pulp, and either scoop out the 
watery sap with a cupped hand or imbibe 
from a hole tapped in the side. 
When 
everything 
else fails in 
desert 

country, you can distill your own water. 
Scoop out a bowl-shaped hole some twenty 
inches deep and forty inches across. Place a 
cup, upturned hat, or other receptacle in the 
center of the cavity. Then anchor a sheet of 
plastic six feet square, such as is often carried 
in a shirt pocket for use as a shelter, all the 
way around the top of the hole with stones or 
dirt, and set something such as a rock in the 
center of the sheet so that the plastic will sag 
in a point directly over the container. Heat 
from the sun will cause moisture in the 
ground to condense on the bottom of the 
plastic and drip into the receptacle. Such a 
solar still can extract up to three pints of 
water a day. To get even more fluid, cut cacti 
and other water-holding plants into pieces and 
drop them under the plastic. Incidentally, 
contaminated water can l>e purified by pour-
ing it into the hole and allowing it to vaporize 
and drip in the heat. 
If you are stranded in a cold climate, clean 
snow can quench your thirst. Its only draw-
back is that a considerable amount is required 
to equal a glass of water. One soon learns to 
break off sections of crust when this is 
available. Heavy granular snow from former 
storms is usually better yet. Most concen-
trated, of course, is ice itself. 
Even sea ice can furnish drinking water. 
Ocean ice loses its salt loses its salt so rapidly 
that ice one year old is nearly fresh, and ice 
formed two or more years before cannot be 
distinguished in taste from river ice. Melted 
hollows in sea ice usually contain ample fresh 
water. 
Catching Fish 
Naturally, a person who is stranded or lost 
in the backcountry may not have his fishing 
gear with him, but he can still catch fish. 
Fishing line can be improvised by unraveling a 
bit of sweater. A small strip of bright cloth 
such as the corner of a handkerchief tied on 
the line will do for bait. In virgin fishing 
territory a fish that bites the cloth can often 
be flipped out on the bank. 
Stronger fishing line can be made from 
unraveled fabric by knotting lengths of four 
or so threads together at frequent intervals. 
Another way to make fishline is to cut 
around and around a section of leather, 
forming a continuous lace 
Natural bait can often be found. Look in 
water first, for it is the source of most fish 
food. Minnows, fish eggs, worms, wood grubs, 
insects, and crayfish are all good baits. Cray-
fish, often found by turning over the rocks in 
streams, make an excellent meal in them-
selves, provided there are enough of them. 
You can cook them by dropping them into 
boiling water. It is then easy to suck the lower 
portions free of the shells. Grasshoppers, also 
edible once hard portions such as wings and 
legs have been removed, are fine fish bait and 
can easily be gathered at night with the aid of 
a light, perhaps a torch of flaming birchbark 
or a burning pine knot. 
It is possible to devise many different 
types of hooks. A bent pin really works, 
though care must be taken that the fish 
doesn't slip off. Open safety pins and bent 
nails can also be used with considerable 
success. For a really rugged hook, lash the 
blade of a pocket knife partly open against a 
Improvised Fishhooks and Spear 
wooden wedge. Open a second blade at an 
opposite angle to form a barb. Then hide the 
knife in a gob of bait. 
You can also cut hooks from hard, tough 
wood. Whittle out the shank first. Lash one or 
more sharp slivers so that they slant upward 
from the lower end. To add a barb, lash 
another sliver more acutely downward from 
the top. If you have no knife, use thorns or 
fish bones for points and barbs. 
You can catch fish by spearing them as 
well as by using hook and line. To make a 
spear, sharpen a long dry stick and harden its 
point over the embers of a fire. It's easy to 
add a barb by whittling the point at the joint 
of an inverted crotch and slivering an inch or 
two of the angle into a sharply restraining 
projection. Barbs and tips of bone, metal, or 
stone can also be lashed into place. 
When hunting fish with a spear, thrust the 
weapon very slowly through the water toward 
the target, often to within inches of the fish 
before making the final jab. At night, with 
the help of a light, it is often possible to spot 
a fish lying almost motionless in shallow 
water. Advancing the spear cautiously and 
aiming low enough to counteract deceptive 
refraction make it easier to pin the fish 
against the bottom. 
Fish can also be caught in improvised 
traps. To make one such trap, drive sticks and 
branches into the bottom so that their tops 
protrude above water. Arrange the sticks to 
form a narrow-mouthed enclosure into which 
the fish are led by a wide funnel-like V. 
Attracted by some such bait as spoiled fish or 
meat, fish guided into the pen through the slit 
at the apex often cannot find their way out. 
Similar traps can be made from wire or vines. 
Fish Trap 
Simpler means will often suffice to catch 
fish. It is sometimes possible to splash up a 
shallow brook, driving any fish ahead of you. 
When these are cornered in a pool, block their 
retreat if necessary with piled stones and go in 
and kill them with a club. Or try stranding 
fish in pools by diverting a small stream. 
Another way to strand a catch is to pry an 
opening in a beaver dam. Sometimes you can 
wade in, kick up the muck that amasses 
behind such a dam, and catch the mud-
blinded fish with bare hands. Fish can also be 
caught with bare hands by feeling carefully 
among the cavities in streambanks. Try 
cupping 
your 
hands 
holding them 
motionless against a bank. Fish will often 
investigate, and you can catch them by 
closing your hands quickly but not too hur-
riedly. 
Practices contrary both to game regulations 
and sportsmanship are justified by the law of 
survival. One of these generally forbidden 
practices is jacking, in part the act of attract-
ing and holding an animal's eyes at night by 
the beam of a light. Deer can often be spotted 
and held in this fashion long enough to be 
shot. Likely places for jacking are the down-
wind sides of well-used game trails and water 
holes. 
It is sometimes possible to drive a small 
animal from its burrow by smoking it out or 
pouring water into the hole. The animal may 
come within reach of a club, or the opening 
may be such that the creature can be impaled 
on a barbed pole or secured by twisting a 
forked stick into its hair and skin. If this 
doesn't work, try digging. Or, spread a noose 
in front of the hole, hide nearby, and jerk the 
loop tight when the quarry ventures out. 
The sluggish porcupine is the one animal 
that even the greenest and weakest tenderfoot 
can kill with only a stick. To do so, just reach 
over the animal, which usually presents the 
raised quills of back and tail, and strike it on 
the head. The best way to skin a porcupine is 
first to turn it over and make the initial 
incision along the smooth underside. 
Rabbits are also easy to kill. In the spring 
the young lie so fearlessly that all a person has 
to do is reach down and pick the youngster 
up. Adult rabbits depend so much on camou-
flage that if you pretend not to see one and 
continue strolling as if going past, it is 
frequently possible to come close enough to 
hit it with a stone. 
Killing Game 

To skin a rabbit, begin by pinching up 
enough of the loose back skin to slit by 
shoving a knife through. Insert your fingers 
and tear the fragile skin apart completely 
around the rabbit. Now peel back the lower 
half like a glove, disjointing the tail and 
finally cutting off each hind foot. Do the 
same thing with the top section of skin, 
loosening it finally by severing the head and 
two forefeet. Finish by pulling the animal 
open just below the ribs, flipping out the 
entrails, and retrieving heart and liver. 
Turtles are an especially valuable food 
source. Sometimes it is possible to backtrack 
a female to a nest of eggs, generally buried in 
sand or mud not far from water. Turtle blood 
and juices are often used to quench thirst. 
You can kill a turtle by concussion or by 
beheading, but be careful even after it is dead 
to avoid both jaws and claws. If possible, drop 
the turtle in boiling water and scald it for 
several minutes. It is then easy to quarter the 
under shell, remove the entrails, and simmer 
the meat free of the upper shell. 
Snares are effective for catching game, 
both large and small. With a strong enough 
thong or rope, you can snare deer and larger 
animals. Rabbits and squirrels can be caught 
with nothing huskier than horsehair or light 
fishline. 
Snare Made with Bent Sapling 
A snare is a slip noose placed with the 
object of tightening about and holding an 
animal that inadvertently runs into it. The 
size of the snare depends on the size of the 
animal sought. For example, on a rabbit trail 
the loop should be about 4 inches in diameter 
and hang l'/2-3 inches above the ground. 
Suppose you want to snare a rabbit. Hang 
the noose on a rabbit path so that the animal 
will run headfirst into it and quickly choke 
himself. To help things along, narrow the trail 
at that particular spot by (1) dropping a 
branch or small tree as naturally as possible 
across the track and making a narrow slit in it 
in which to suspend the noose, (2) shoving a 
few sticks into the ground to serve as a 
funnel, or (3) blocking the bottom, top, and 
sides of the runway with brush except for a 
small opening where the loop awaits. 
A quick way to collect squirrels is to lean 
a pole against a conifer and at six or so points 
on the pole attach small nooses. A squirrel 
scampering up the incline runs his head into 
the loop and falls free. 
One of the best ways to make a snare is to 
bend a sapling and arrange a trigger so that 
the animal will be lifted off its feet, and, if 
not choked as humanely as possible, at least 
rendered unable to exert direct pressure. 
You can also kill game with deadfalls. One 
way of preparing a deadfall is to prop up an 
end of a heavy object such as a log with a 
stick, doing so with such studied insecurity 
that any animal which moves the support will 
knock it loose. 
Two Ideas for Making Deadfalls 
All birds and their eggs are good to eat. 
When they are molting and unable to fly, it is 
not hard to corner them on foot. Roosting or 
nesting birds can be secured by a noose 
fastened to the end of a pole. Birds can also 
be caught in fine snares and deadfalls. 
Ptarmigan and grouse promise feasts for 
anybody lost in the wilderness, especially as a 
few stones or sticks are often the only 
weapons needed. If one misses the first time, 
such fowl usually will afford a second and 
even a third try. When they do fly, they 
generally go only short distances and may be 
successfully followed, particularly if the pur-
suer does so casually and at such an angle that 
it would seem he were going to stroll on past. 
A bola is a handy weapon for bagging 
birds. To make one, simply attach several 
stones to the ends of thongs. When using the 
bola, grasp it at the center from which all 
cords radiate and twirl it above your head. 
Hurled at flying birds, the spinning strings 
often twist around one or more and bring 
them to the ground. 
Tracking Game 
Of course, if you are to kill enough game to 
stay alive, you must know where to look. 
Tracks are among the best clues to animal 
whereabouts. Illustrated here are the tracks of 
some common North American game animals. 
These tracks appear on the page as they 
would in soft snow, damp sand, or mud, 
though clear prints are rare on the leaf-strewn 
forest floor or on hard, dry ground. Tracks 
are often distorted, and you may see only 
disturbed leaves, clots of thrown-up earth, 
bent grass, broken twigs, and other clues 
running in a line. It's impossible to tell what 
animal made them without following them 
for a while. The animal will probably cross a 
soft spot, and then you may find just one 
clear print of one foot. 
If tracks suddenly come to a dead end, the 
animal may have backtracked in its own 
prints in order to get to cover where it can 
jump aside. It is therefore unwise when 
following the trail of an animal to step right 
on the tracks. This makes it harder to 
backtrack and find the jumping-off place. The 
animal may also have jumped to a leaning 
tree, log, or other object well off the ground. 
Look around for such a means of escape. 
If tracks fade, try moving from side to side 
to get the right light. From one angle, tracks 
may be almost invisible. From another, the 
line of slight depressions may be clear because 
of the shadows that they cast. 
1. Whitetail deer. 2. Cottontail rabbit. 3. Gray squirrel. 
4. Porcupine. 
5. Woodchuck. 6. Beaver. 7. Raccoon 8. Opossum. 

Butchering Game 
In butchering, a thin-edged rock or the jagged 
end of a dead limb can be used as substitute 
for a knife. Birds can be dressed in a few 
minutes 
bare hands. 
To 
minimize 
damage to the succulent skin, pull out the 
feathers while the fowl is still warm. Pull out 
the small pouch near where the neck disap-
pears into the body, for it is the crop. Then, 
grasping the bird above and below the ribs, 
pull it open. Take out the viscera, but save the 
heart and liver. 
Building a Fire 
The question of warmth is often the deciding 
factor in determining whether you should 
stay put and await rescue or try to get out of 
the wilderness by yourself. During extremely 
cold spells it is usually wise to find the best 
shelter available and lay up beside a fire until 
the frost moderates. 
The best kindling is birchbark. Enough 
small shreds of this can be pulled off by hand 
so that there is seldom any need to disfigure a 
tree. 
In evergreen country it's easy to start a 
blaze in any kind of weather. A fairly tight 
handful of the dead resinous twigs that 
abound in the lower parts of all conifers will 
readily burst into flame at the touch of a 
match. In wet, cold weather when the trees 
are covered with ice, you have only to expose 
the dry oily interiors of the dead branches. 
Shavings from pitch pine light very easily. So 
do shavings from any dead wood adhering to 
standing evergreens. If no softwood is about, 
look for dead wood on other trees. When 
fallen litter must be used for kindling, be sure 
to choose only wood that is firm and dry. 
Fuzzsticks also start a fire quickly. They 
are made by shaving a piece of wood repeated-
ly, not detaching the accumulating curls. 
One way to start a fire is to bunch a few 
wisps of birchbark on the bare ground. Pile a 
handful of evergreen twigs above this. Over 
this nucleus, lean a few larger seasoned 
conifer stubs. Also in wigwam fashion, lay up 
some dead hardwood. Then ignite the birch-
bark so the flames will eat into the heart of 
the pile. 
There is no time in any wooded area when 
a fire cannot be built from materials at hand. 
A sheltered nook can always be found or 
made. Even during a freezing rain, a knife will 
provide shavings and kindling. If you have no 
Animals are usually most easily skinned 
when hung by the separated hind legs. Cut 
around each ankle. Slit up the inside of the 
leg to join a long cut made from the vent up 
the abdomen to the throat. Do the same with 
each foreleg. Then, using the cutting edge 
whenever it becomes necessary to free the 
hide from the body, pull down the skin. 
Remove all the vitals with as little cutting and 
puncturing as possible. Save the liver, heart, 
and kidneys. 
knife, you can still break and splinter enough 
dead wood to kindle a blaze. 
There are many ingenious ways to make 
little sticks out of big limbs without the use 
of either knife or ax. For instance, you can 
burn firewood in two. Another dodge is to lay 
the ends of long sticks in the fire, continuing 
to advance them until they are consumed. 
Try to accomplish the lighting with a 
single match. Hold the match so that any 
draft reaching it will feed the fire down to the 
stem where it will keep burning. Use which-
ever method seems best, such as the follow-
ing: (1) facing the wind with both hands 
cupped in front of the flaming match, (2) 
stretching out between the breeze and the 
carefully heaped flammables so your body 
acts as a shield, (3) protecting the first feeble 
flames with a large sheet of bark, jacket, or 
other handy article. 
In cold weather have everything ready for 
the fire before uncovering your hands. The 
fingers will probably be stiff. If the flames do 
not commence licking upward almost immedi-
ately once the hands are bared, shove them 
against your skin to warm before making 
another attempt. 
Fires can be lit without matches by using 
the direct spark technique. This requires a 
generous wad of tinder. The bark of birches 
and some cedars makes good tinder when 
detached in very thin layers and shredded. 
Among other suitable materials are the dry 
fuzz from pussy willows; a handful of very 
dry pine needles; dry vegetable fibers; the 
droppings of bats; down from birds, nests, 
milkweed, and fireweed; the fluff of cotton 
grass and cattails; the downy heads of such 
flowers as mature goldenrod; the dessicated 
pith from the inside of elderberry shoots, and 
such pulverized materials as moss, lichens, 
grass, 
dead evergreen 
needles, 
dry-rotted 
wood, and dehydrated mushrooms and other 
fungi. 
A suitable spark can be made by striking 
the back of a knife or an iron object against a 
piece of flint or other hard stone such as 
quartz, jasper, iron pyrite (fool's gold), agate, 
or native jade. If none of these items are 
available, try to find two rocks that, when 
struck together with a brisk, stroking motion, 
will give off sparks. 
Focusing the sun's rays on tinder with the 
aid of a small magnifying glass or lens from a 
Obtaining Shelter 
Nature sometimes offers readymade shelter. A 
fallen tree is often at hand under whose roots 
a browse bed can be laid so as to benefit from 
the luxury of a crackling night blaze, nor is it 
unusual to come upon a dry indentation in a 
streambank that can be quickly roofed with 
brush and cheered by a campfire in front. 
Don't overlook caves, either. A cave to be 
used as shelter should be dry, protected from 
wind, and small enough to be easily heated. 
Trenches make good shelter in the desert 
and in snow. If on flat, shelterless desert, 
scoop out a narrow pit in which to lie while 
the sun is blazing down. The utmost shade 
will be secured if this trench extends east and 
west. Two or three feet of depth can result in 
a difference of as much as 100 in tempera-
ture between its shadowy bottom and ground 
level. It's a good idea to leave some sign of 
your presence before taking to such a refuge, 
perhaps by weighting a shirt over one of the 
excavated piles. 
When snow lies deep, a trench can often 
be made by stamping. It may be in the shape 
of a rough triangle with the wider end, roofed 
and floored with evergreen, large enough to 
sit or curl up in, with the narrower part 
reflecting a small fire. 
Many other kinds of shelter can be made 
with snow. If you're traveling along a river, 
there may be boulders along the shore be-
tween which snow walls can be heaped and 
over them several young evergreens spread. If 
snow is deep enough, tunnel into it, taking 
care to do this at right angles to the wind so 
there will be less chance of the opening's 
being choked by drift. 
To make a snow house, heap snow in a 
mound slightly larger than the shelter desired. 
Pack down the final surface. If the weather is 
well below freezing and water is at hand, 
throw it over the pile to form a glaze of ice. 
pocket telescope or pair of binoculars will 
also start a fire. Sometimes a piece of ordi-
nary glass will do as well. A satisfactory lens 
can be made by shaving a piece of clear ice 
and then smoothing it with the warm hand. 
Or use the magnifying properties of water to 
make a fire by (1) holding the curved crystals 
of two watches or pocket compasses of about 
the same size back to back, (2) filling the 
space between with water, and (3) directing 
this makeshift enlarging lens so as to converge 
the rays of the sun in a point sharp enough to 
start tinder glowing. 
Otherwise, let the mound harden as well as it 
will in the air for a half-hour or so. Then 
burrow into the pile at right angles to the 
wind until as thin a shell as seems practical 
remains. Build a small blaze within. Any 
water will be blotted up by the remaining 
snow. Finally, drag out embers and ashes, 
poke a ventilation hole through the dome, 
and allow the shelter to ice. A very small fire 
within such a snow house will keep the 
temperature surprisingly comfortable. 
Snow House 
Naturally, do not make a snow shelter 
where there is danger from drifts, overhang, 
or slides. In open country, beware of making 
a snow shelter on the side of a slope that is 
protected from the wind. In open terrain such 
lees gather drifts that can bury one. Also, 
keep yourself dry by keeping mitts, boughs, 
bark, or a sheet of plastic between you and 
the snow. 
Lean-tos are another wilderness standby. 
To make a simple lean-to, drive two forked 
sticks into the ground about seven feet apart 
and lay a pole between the two crotches. 
Then make a tentlike enclosure by angling 

long evergreen boughs from ridgepole to 
ground along each side. Finish by closing at 
least one end, perhaps by laying several small 
firs against it. 
Simple Lean-to Frame 
More complicated frames can easily be 
assembled, especially when the joints are 
fastened by lashing them with fine but tough 
spruce roots or with wiry birch or willow 
withes. Natural forks can be used instead, of 
course. The accompanying drawings illustrate 
some of the more common types of lean-tos. 
Distress Signals 
Very often the best procedure to adopt when 
lost, stranded, or in trouble is to stay where 
you are, conserve energy by moving about as 
little as possible, improvise the easiest shelter, 
and set about to attract aid. 
A fire makes one of the better distress 
signals. One way to send up smoke that is 
conspicuous by daylight is to throw evergreen 
or any green boughs into a hot fire. Burning 
rubber articles will send up black billows. A 
long-lasting smudge can be made by covering 
hot coaLs with humid green foliage, wet dead 
leaves, slowly burning green wood, moist 
decayed wood, damp animal droppings, etc. If 
fuel is scarce, the best course may be to keep 
only a small fire going, if that is necessary for 
warmth, and to concentrate on heaping up 
signal pyres to be lit at a moment's notice. 
The distress signal most commonly used is 
made with three fires or three smokes, prefer-
ably built in a straight line. You can also send 
smoke signals from a single blaze by momen-
tarily cutting off the smoke with something 
such as a wet blanket and releasing series of 
three puffs. 
The most universally recognized distress 
signals are based on the number three: three 
flashes, three shots, etc., even to the three 
Elaborate Lean-to Frame 
Overnight Shelter in Evergreen Country 
dots, three dashes, three dots of the familiar 
SOS. Knowledge of a dot-and-dash code is 
invaluable in an emergency. It permits the 
sending and receiving of messages with flag, 
flashlight, mirror, whistle, smoke, and such 
primitive devices as thumping on a hollow log. 
The International Morse Code, which is the 
most widely understood, follows: 
Letters Morse Code 
Letters 
Morse Code 
Such signals transmitted by flag can be 
seen for miles under favorable conditions. The 
flag may be something such as a large hand-
kerchief or shirt, knotted to the end of a light 
pole some six feet long. 
Hold the base of the staff at waist level in 
the palm of one hand and grip the stick a 
dozen inches or so higher by the master hand. 
All letters start with the staff held straight 
upward. The dot is made by swinging the flag 
down to the right and then back again. The 
dash is made by swinging the flag in a simi-
lar arc to the left and back. 
To keep the flag flat for maximum visi-
bility, move it in tight loops. Hold the flag 
upright a moment to end a letter. Lower and 
raise it in front of you to finish a word. 
Swinging right-left-right-left-right signifies the 
conclusion of a message. 
A mirror can also transmit messages in 
Morse Code or attract rescuers simply by 
reflecting sunlight. Anyone traveling in the 
bush will do well to carry the Emergency 
Signaling Mirror, available at some surplus 
stores, in a pocket. If help is needed, it is a 
good idea to sweep the horizon with an aimed 
beam of reflected sunlight even if no rescuer 
is visible. If an airplane is in sight, signal it as 
follows. When the angle between the sun and 
D 
o 
the plane is not greater than 90 , hold the 
mirror three to six inches from your face and 
sight at the plane through the small hole in 
the center. The light from the sun shining 
through the hole will form a spot of light on 
your face, reflected in the rear surface of the 
mirror. Still sighting on the plane through the 
hole, adjust the angle of the mirror until the 
reflection of the light spot on the rear of the 
mirror coincides with the hole and disappears. 
First Aid 
MEDICAL KIT 
Anyone traveling in the backcountry or under-
taking a rescue mission should have with him 
a lightweight medical kit. The items discussed 
below comprise a kit that can be used to treat 
everything from dysentery to a laceration. It 
weighs less than four ounces, excluding the 
snakebite suction cups and anti-venom, and is 
adequate for one person to take on a one-
week trip. Amounts of drugs would vary, of 
course, on a longer trip. 
A.P.C. (Same as Empirin) or Aspirin. 
Twelve 5-grain tablets. For headaches. Dose: 
two each four hours. 
Aspirin with Codeine. Six half-grain co-
deine capsules. For severe pain and con-
trolling cough. Dose: one each three to four 
Compazine. Four to six 5-mg. tablets. For 
nausea or vomiting. Dose: one each four 
Signaling Plane with Mirror 
Top: When angle between plane and sun is 
or less. Bottom: When angle between 
plane and sun is more than 90 . 
If the angle between the sun and the plane 
is more than 90 , sight the target through the 
hole; then adjust the angle .of the mirror until 
the reflection of the light spot on your hand 
coincides with the hole in the mirror. This 
method works even when the plane is almost 
on one horizon and the sun almost 180 away 
on the opposite horizon. 
Probanthine. Six to eight tablets. For 
stomach spasms or diarrhea cramps. Dose: 
One each four hours. 
Lomotil. Twelve tablets. For diarrhea. 
Dose: one or two tablets each three to four 
hours until diarrhea is under control, then one 
each four hours. 
Pyribenzamine. Six 50-mg. tablets. For 
drying up a cold and relieving itching eyes, 
hives, and other allergic reactions. Dose: one 
each four hours. 
Sulfasuxidine. Sixteen -5-gm. tablets. For 
dysentery, if there is fever and it does not 
respond to simple measures. Dose: two or 
three each four hours. 
Erythromycin. Twelve 250-mg. tablets. 
For respiratory and other infections. Dose: 
one each four hours at meals and bedtime for 
three to four days. Use longer for tonsillitis 
and pneumonia. 
Dexedrine. Two or three 5-mg. tablets. 
For energy in emergency only. Dose: one 
every four to six hours. 

Butyn, or 
Metycaine and 
Merthiolate. 
Ointments for anesthetizing the eye in cases 
of snow blindness or when removing a foreign 
body. 
Spectrocin Eye Ointment. For eye infec-
tion or external otitis in ear. Apply each four 
Ophthalmic Pontocaine, %%. Liquid eye 
anesthetic. Apply each four hours. 
Surgical Supplies. (1) Roller gauze, 1- or 
2-inch. (2) Telfa, a nonsticking gauze. (3) 
Small assorted adhesive bandages. (4) 3 x 3 or 
4 x 4 flats. (5) Scalpel blades, 11 Bard-Parker 
and curved blade. (6) Suture material, three-0 
and five-0 nylon with needle attached in 
sterile packet. (7) Mosquito clamp. (8) Mani-
cure scissors. (9) Package of Butterfly plastic 
tapes for holding wounds together without 
suturing. (10) Packet of three-0 plain catgut 
for ties on bleeding arteries. (11) Oil of cloves 
for treating toothache. 
Suction Cups and Antivenom Kit. For 
treating snakebite. 
MEDICAL TREATMENTS 
Insect Bites. Limbs sometimes become 
badly swollen from multiple fly and mosquito 
bites. The swelling can be reduced with cool 
starch baths, aspirin by mouth, and one 50-mg. 
tablet of Pyribenzamine each four hours. To 
make a starch bath, add a cup of starch, flour, 
or oatmeal to a quart of boiling water. Stir 
this into a container of lukewarm water in 
which the patient soaks for fifteen to twenty 
minutes. A paste of starch and water — or, 
better yet starch boiled with a little water to 
make a thick, gravylike concoction - can be 
applied locally to allay itching. 
People who are sensitive to insect bites 
may suffer shortness of breath, then shock 
and loss of consciousness. In such a case, treat 
for shock (see below). Fortunately, sensitive 
people can get a special kit from their doctor 
before taking off for the wilderness. 
Ticks attach themselves to the body and 
become engorged with blood before dropping 
off. They pass on a group of diseases, mostly 
in the Rocky Mountains. Everyone going into 
this area should be immunized against Rocky 
Mountain spotted fever beforehand. 
It is a good idea to inspect the body at 
least three times daily for ticks in tick 
country. The best way to remove a tick is to 
dig the head out by lifting the tick upwards to 
arch its back and work around the head from 
the back forward with an 11 Bard-Parker 
scalpel blade. 
The bite of the black widow spider - a 
glossy, moderately large black spider with a 
reddish hourglass marking on its underside — 
can cause severe muscular cramps and pain in 
some. Use aspirin for the pain and cramps. 
Cold compresses applied to the site of the bite 
help reduce swelling and delay absorption of 
the venom. Recovery is the rule. 
Poison Ivy, Oak, and Sumac. Contact with 
these plants, pictured here, causes a skin 
irritation. Avoid them. Treatment with a 
starch bath or paste, described under Insect 
Bites, helps to allay the itching. Try at all 
costs to avoid scratching the affected areas. 
Common Poisonous Plants 
Snakebite. Anyone venturing into the 
wilderness should be able to identify the four 
poisonous snakes of North America - rattle-
snake, copperhead, coral snake, and water 
moccasin - illustrated here. If in doubt as to 
whether someone has been bitten by a poison-
ous snake, examine the marks left by the bite. 
A double row of tooth marks and no fang 
marks are signs of a bite by a nonpoisonous 
snake. Treat as with any puncture wound. 
One or two small puncture wounds indicate a 
bite by a poisonous snake. Symptoms are a 
feeling of stinging pain, swelling, and discolor-
ation in the part struck. Nausea, weakness, a 
weak and rapid pulse, and a profuse flow of 
saliva ensue. 
If ice is available, treat a poisonous snake-
bite as follows. Put a tourniquet several inches 
above the bite on the side of the heart. 
Release briefly every five minutes until the 
extremity can be put into a fifty-fifty mixture 
of ice and water. Immerse well above the bite. 
Remove the tourniquet permanently within 
Moccasin 
coral snake 
Poisonous Snakes of North America 
three to five minutes after immersion. While 
you are soaking the bitten part, test the 
patient for allergy to antivenom according to 
the directions which come with the anti-
venom kit. If the test is negative, inject half 
an ampule of antivenom at the site of the bite 
and the other half at a higher level in the same 
extremity. After the affected part has been 
immersed for three or four hours, pack the 
extremity with improvised ice bags. After 
twenty-four to thirty-six hours, allow the 
extremity to warm slowly. 
Snakebite kits, which take up little more 
room in the pocket than a 12-gauge shotgun 
shell, are widely available. Their function is 
based on suction cups. Complete instructions 
come with the kits. 
Heat Exhaustion. This occurs among those 
who exert themselves in an excessively warm 
climate, such as in the desert. There may be 
weakness 
dizziness 
or headache for 
several days. Often there is fainting. Sweating 
may be profuse at first. Before collapsing, the 
patient becomes weak, pale, and clammy. The 
body temperature is normal or subnormal. If 
the latter, use hot packs. Rest in a cooler 
location is the treatment. Recovery is the 
rule. 
Heat Stroke. Heat stroke is entirely differ-
ent from heat exhaustion and often fatal. In 
this condition, the body temperature rises, 
often as high as 112°. The skin is hot and 
dry. The body temperature must be lowered. 
Treatment consists of removal to a cool spot 
and cool baths or rubdowns. Try not to use ice, 
as this may force the blood into the body away 
from the skin, thereby further increasing the 
body temperature. If ice is used, massage the 
extremities of the body vigorously to keep 
the circulation going. Medical help must be 
sought. 
Frostbite. Frostbite is indicated by a 
sudden blanching of the skin on the nose, ear, 
cheek, etc., accompanied by a tingling sen-
sation. The skin is yellow-white. Feeling in 
the affected part decreases. Frostbitten skin 
feels cold, frosty, and crisp or resilient to the 
touch. 
The best treatment is quick thawing in a 
water bath of 102 . The water should be 
warm, but not hot, to the touch. In the field, 
a bared hand can be held over the face until 
the latter hurts, a foot thawed on a friend's 
stomach, or a hand put in your warm armpit. 
Sprains. Sprains in the wrist and ankle are 
hard to tell from fractures. Either a fracture 
or sprain can cause swelling and pain with 
motion. If an ankle or wrist is badly swollen, 
apply an elastic Ace bandage, leave it in place 
for a month, and use the part gingerly. This 
assumes that there is no evident gross de-
formity of the bone that would make you 
suspect a fracture. 
Treatment for Back Sprain 
Use of Sling for Shoulder Sprain 

Any back injury not resulting from a blow 
can be assumed to be a sprain. Rest for two to 
seven days in flexion (pillow under knees and 
back, as shown in drawing) will heal the back 
ligaments. In minor cases, rest and aspirin 
suffice. 
Shoulder and elbow sprains may require 
that the affected part be put at rest in a sling 
(see illustration). Knee sprains can be rested 
in an elastic bandage. 
Do not use heat for neck sprains, although 
heat helps other sprains. Take two aspirins 
each four hours. Neck sprains are slow to 
mend. If full motion is possible, even though 
Reduction of Shoulder Dislocation 
Step 
painful, it is unlikely that a fracture or 
dislocation is present. 
To reduce the swelling associated with 
sprains, apply cold compresses for the first 
12-18 hours. After that, use heat. 
Shoulder Dislocation. The head of the arm 
boae is obviously out of place and can be 
displaced forward or backward. Reduce dis-
location as shown. Hold arm in place with a 
Desault's bandage (see illustration). Keep im-
mobilized for three weeks. 
Dislocated Jaw. The jaw is held open, and 
a prominence can be felt on the side where 
the jaw is dislocated. The dislocation may 
occur on both sides. 
Reduce by wrapping the thumbs well in a 
towel or other padding and inserting them in 
the mouth. Exert downward pressure on the 
lower rear teeth while the fingers lift the chin. 
The jaw will go back into place with a pop. 
Hip Dislocation. Reduce by the four man-
euvers shown in the drawing. Then splint the 
leg for ten days. 
Arm Fractures. For fractures of the upper 
arm, use a hanging arm cast, as shown. 
Healing usually takes 6-8 weeks. 
In forearm fractures, two bones are in-
volved. If one bone breaks, it is likely that the 
other has broken too. If the forearm bones 
are obviously misaligned, reduce by holding 
Desault's Bandage for Holding Arm in Place 
Step 1. Put a pad in each armpit. Step 2. Hold the pads in place with several turns of 
bandage about the chest. Step 3. Pass bandage around back and up toward injured side. Note 
pad on collarbone. Step 4. Pass bandage over injured shoulder, down and over elbow, and across 
back to good armpit. Step 5. View of same from back. Step 6. Pass bandage up to injured 
shoulder, over it, down back of injured arm, around to front of injured arm, and obliquely 
across chest to complete figure-8 type loop. 
Hanging Arm Cast 
Tape enough weight along bottom of 
cast to make 6-8 pounds. 
Loop sling over wrist toped to splint 
Right-angle splint improvised from bark, 
metal, etc., placed over well-padded arm 
How to Hold Forearm Without Plaster 
Step 1 
Pad arm we 
-Splint to end of hand and 
beginning of fingers 
-Improvised splint; metal, bark, 
willow branches, etc., 
IMPROVISE! 

Reduction of Hip Dislocation 
Step 1. Swing heel and raise up. Step 2. Keep bent knee and ankle in same relative position. 
Swing knee out. Step 3. Steady leg with left hand. Pull ankle down with leg turned out some-
what than drawing shows. Step 4. Complete straightening leg and, with foot in neutral position, 
force knee into knock-kneed position. Do in one smooth motion. 
the elbow at right angles, placing a stockinged 
foot in the bend of the elbow, and pulling 
with one hand while the other tries to mold 
the ends back into position. Use a long, slow 
pull. Then immobilize the arm so the wrist 
and elbow do not move for eight weeks. The 
drawing shows how to do this without a 
plaster cast. 
Thigh Bone Fracture. Splint as shown and 
seek professional help. 
Other Fractures. Compound fractures, in 
which the bone tears through the flesh and 
skin, and fractures of the hip, kneecap, and 
Pad in armpit 
Splinting of Thigh Bone Fracture 
lower leg need professional medical treat-
ment. 
Cuts. In treating cuts, you must stop the 
bleeding, bring the skin together to promote 
healing with a minimum of scarring, and 
prevent infection. To stop bleeding, exert 
steady, firm pressure over the cut with a 
folded gauze, handkerchief, or whatever is 
available. Hold the compress at least five 
minutes. If there is still bleeding, repeat the 
process. 
Employ a tourniquet only if the bleeding 
is uncontrollable. Tourniquets are used only 
to control bleeding from the arteries of the 
arms and legs (blood from arteries spurts; 
blood from veins seeps). Bleeding from the 
arteries of face and body can be stopped by 
pressure alone. To improvise a tourniquet, roll 
up a handkerchief. Tie it loosely between the 
wound and the heart and as close to the 
wound as possible; then tighten it with a 
Use of Mosquito Clamp 
A. Take small bite of bleeding artery in clamp. B. Swing clamp down. This allows ligature 
to be looped around clamp and pass under tip of clamp. C. Complete overhand knot. Remove 
clamp and lay down second knot; do this without tugging or entire ligature will come off. 
twisted stick. The tourniquet should be just 
tight enough to control the bleeding while 
other preparations are carried but. Loosen it 
each 8-10 minutes. 
If the bleeding is still not controlled, grasp 
the end of the bleeding artery with a Mos-
quito clamp and clamp it. This crushes the 
end of the artery and, if left on five minutes, 
often stops the bleeding. If the artery starts to 
bleed again when the clamp is released, 
reclamp it and tie a ligature of three-0 plain 
catgut around the base of the bleeding artery, 
as illustrated. 
Clean the wound next. Use drinking water 
for a clean wound. If the wound is dirty, pick 
out the foreign matter with the tips of the 
clamp. Then irrigate the wound gently but 
firmly with soapy water. Bits of frayed and 
Arm-Lift Method of Artificial Respiration 
1. Kneel at patient's head. Place hands on back just below shoulders. 2. Press down slowly 
on patient's back to force air from lungs. 3. Rock back. As you do so, grasp patient's arms just 
above elbows. 4. Lift patient's arms to pull air into lungs. Let arms fall and press down on back 
again. Repeat cycle 12 times per minute. 

devitalized 
tissue are best trimmed with 
manicure scissors. 
If the wound is gaping, bring it together 
with a Butterfly plastic tape, as shown. 
Laceration 
_ held 
together 
. 
by butterfly 
tape 
How to Use Butterfly Tape 
Shock. Shock often follows a severe in-
jury, blow, or fracture. It may be induced by 
rough handling, cold, severe pain, or excessive 
bleeding. The skin is cold and clammy, and 
the patient feels light-headed and faint. The 
pulse is rapid and weak. To treat, lower the 
head below the level of the heart and raise the 
feet. Keep the patient warm and control pain 
with codeine. Avoid moving the patient. 
Breath 
Stoppage. Immediate action is 
needed whenever breathing stops as a result of 
drowning, smoke inhalation, or electric shock 
as from lightning. If the arm-lift method of 
artificial respiration does not produce results, 
use 
mouth-to-mouth 
resuscitation. 
Food 
Poisoning. 
Some 
symptoms are 
nausea, sharp stomach pains or cramps, faint-
ness, vomiting, and weakness. To treat, induce 
vomiting by giving the patient several glasses 
of water, preferably warm, and sticking a 
finger down his throat. Do this several times. 
Keep the patient warm and quiet. 
Mouth-to-Mouth Resuscitation 
1. Wipe away foreign matter. 2. Pull lower jaw outward. 3. Blow air into victim's lungs. 
4. Allow victim to exhale. 
Storms. Bad weather can be a catastrophe 
in the wilderness, and weather considerations 
will naturally play a crucial part when anyone 
lost or stranded is deciding whether to stay 
Where he is or try to get out of the back-
country by himself. An ability to predict the 
weather comes in handy in such a case. 
Clouds provide the most accurate sign-
posts for wilderness weather forecasting. It is 
necessary to keep watching them, however. 
Even more important than momentarily pre-
dominant cloud formations is the way they 
change. 
Nimbostratus, 
cirrostratus, 
alto-
stratus, and cumulonimbus clouds, pictured 
here, are harbingers of rain or snow. 
The higher the clouds, the better the 
weather. Prospects are even finer when scat-
tered clouds, decreasing in number, are sepa-
rated by brilliant clear blue. The combining of 
clouds, especially in a milky sky, does not 
augur so well. When thin but tight cloud cover 
slowly blankets the moon, wet weather is not 
far away. 
When the sky is cloudy, watch the corona, 
the circle that appears around the sun or 
moon. When the corona grows larger, the 
drops of water in the atmosphere are evapo-
rating and the weather probably will be clear. 
When the corona shrinks, water drops in the 
clouds are becoming so large that rain is al-
most sure to fall. 
Watch the color of the sky, too. A red sky 
in the morning and a gray sky in the evening 
indicate approaching rain. A gray sky in the 
morning and a red sky in the evening forecast 
fair weather. 
When neither dew nor frost forms during 
the night, precipitation is ahead. When smoke 
from a fire beats downward after rising a 
short distance, you can likewise expect wet 
weather. 
Forest Fires. In the woods fire danger can 
be detected by the following signs: (1) the air 
is dry and hot, often with a strong odor of 
pine pitch; (2) grass and dead leaves under-
foot crackle as you walk; (3) the bark peels 
off some trees in dry, brittle sheets; (4) the 
sky is a hot brassy blue; (5) the voices of 
animals and birds are muted or silent; (6) the 
soil is dry and often hard. Anyone who finds 
Storm CIoids 
Top left: nimbostratus. Top right: cirrostratus. Bottom left: cumulonimbus. Bottom right: 
altostratus. 
Dealing with Natural Hazards 

himself in such a place should get out of it as 
fast as possible. When there is smoke in the air 
and animals are running and birds flying all in 
one direction,.he should dash for a river, lake, 
or wide-open space of considerable extent. 
Flash Floods. When camping in the desert, 
do not make the mistake of pitching a tent on 
the luringly level bottom of a dry gulch or 
riverbed. A faraway storm can send a flash 
flood- roaring down such a declivity with 
hardly a moment's warning. Just keep to high 
ground and you'll be safe. . 
Mire. Quagmires where mud, decaying 
vegetation, and water are mixed in propor-
tions not solid enough to support a person's 
weight present a hazard. If you should feel 
such an instability, try to reach solid land by 
running. If this is impossible, crawl out on 
your knees or stomach. There may be a 
nearby branch or bush to grab. Or a pack or 
coat may support your weight. 
Quicksand. Quicksand, sand suspended in 
water, is similar to mire but offers less time to 
escape. You may be able to throw yourself 
full length immediately and either crawl or 
swim free. Try ducking under water to loosen 
your feet, digging around with the hands and 
quickly jettisoning footwear. Avoid sudden 
and abrupt motions. Rest but don't give up, 
for quicksand often occupies a hole no larger 
around than a sofa. 
Snowslide. The best way to survive a 
snowslide is to keep on top of the avalanche. 
This can be done with a swimming motion, 
especially the backstroke. 
Hazards of Ice Travel. In the winter, 
wilderness travel is often easiest by walking 
on the surface of frozen streams. To minimize 
the risk, carry a long light pole horizontally. 
Then, if you plunge unexpectedly through the 
ice, the pole can serve as a bridge, both 
Whether you are on a wilderness or a rescue 
mission, it pays to start out with the best 
equipment and to have as many of the 
important items on your person as possible, 
either in or on your clothing or in your pack. 
Chief among these important items are a 
water-filled canteen, water purification tab-
lets, food, guns and ammunition, fishing gear, 
tent or plastic shelter, sleeping bag, matches, 
flashlight, jackknife, compass, and medical 
kit, already discussed. 
checking the descent and affording support. 
The pole can also be used to jab at suspicious 
portions ahead, such as those hidden beneath 
snow. 
Beware of candle ice, ice several feet thick 
which has decomposed into long vertical 
needles, among which a testing pole can be 
driven all the way through in a single jab. 
Candle ice is best shunned entirely. 
Suppose you do break through. If you 
have a sheath knife, drive its point into solid 
ice and use it to roll yourself out and away. It 
may be necessary to break away thin ice by 
hand to reach a surface strong enough to hold 
your full weight. Then get as much of your 
arms as possible over the edge, bring your 
body as nearly horizontal as you can, perhaps 
with the help of a swimming motion made 
with the feet, throw a leg over, and roll to 
safety. 
If only your feet have gotten wet, change 
your stockings or squeeze them as dry as 
possible, pour and wipe away any water inside 
the boots, warm the feet against some other 
portion of the body, dress, and continue as 
usual. If you are thoroughly drenched, roll 
quickly in the most absorbent snow at hand 
and build a fire. 
Animal Encounters. Beware of approach-
ing the young of any animal. The mother, 
whether a deer or a bear, will chase any 
intruder away. Suppose you come face to face 
with a larger animal that shows no disposition 
to retreat. The best thing to do is stand 
perfectly still and talk in as calm a manner as 
possible. The animal will probably move away 
but if it doesn't, you may have to retreat in a 
casual manner, avoiding sudden movements 
and still talking quietly. Running from an 
animal will often induce it to give chase. 
Canteen. Lighter plastic containers are 
now replacing the customary metal canteens. 
Some are collapsible and others have water-
proof caps. 
Food. In calculating how much food to 
take along on a wilderness expedition, a good 
yardstick is to allow at least 25 ounces of 
reasonably water-free foods per adult per day. 
Figuring in terms of calories, allow at least 
3,000 per person per day. Include fats, 
proteins, and carbohydrates in proportions 
which will furnish this amount remembering 
that every ounce of fat food has about 200 
calories while protein and carbohydrates yield 
about 100 calories per ounce. Freeze-dried 
and dehydrated foods are the only kind to 
take along on a trip into the wilderness. 
Guns and Ammunition. On any trip into 
the wilderness where it is necessary to provide 
for emergencies, the best survival weapon is a 
flat and hard-shooting rifle. It should be 
rugged, accurate, and durable. A shotgun is no 
fit substitute, for although it has about the 
same displacement and heft as a rifle, it 
shoots bulkier ammunition at much smaller 
prey. A telescopic sight will add vital minutes 
to the most productive hunting periods of 
every day. Include a light sling, too. 
Every member of a party should have a 
rifle apiece so they can spread out and hunt 
separately. The rifles should be identical so 
that the parts of one or two can be used to 
repair the third. 
As for ammunition, the best cartridge is 
the high-velocity, hollow-point type. 
Fishing Gear. This need not weigh more 
than IVi pounds, including spinning rod, reel, 
and tackle. For tackle, take hooks, sinkers, 
flies in a 35-mm can, lures, leader, and 
bobber. For emergencies, carry nylon line 
wrapped around a stick. This can be used with 
a field-cut switch. 
Shelters. Tents carried on treks into the 
backcountry should be light, waterproof, dur-
able, and insect-proof. Good lightweight tents 
are usually made of high-count cotton fabric 
or nylon. Treated cotton fabric weighing at 
least six ounces per yard provides water-
repellent shelter that is rot- and mildew-
resistant while still being able to breathe. 
Look for tents featuring lap seams sewn 
double, catenary cut to eliminate sag, coated 
waterproof sides and floors of one piece, 
reinforcing at strain points, grommets or 
braided nylon tape loops, sleeves for poles, 
and adequate screen doors and vents that can 
be opened from inside or outside. Poles are 
aluminum and sectional for easy packing. 
Shock-cord sectioned poles that are self-
erecting are practical. 
Plastic sheets, obtainable in any size de-
sired from sporting goods stores, can easily be 
set up as shelters with the aid of nylon cord 
and plastic stick-on grommets. Such sheets 
should be at least .004 inch thick. In country 
where high winds are prevalent, a heavy 
thickness of .006 inch is best. Such plastic 
sheets also make good groundsheets. Plastic 
tubes provide roof and groundsheet in one. 
Only a length of nylon cord is needed to rig a 
ridge support between two trees. Gear will 
spread the tube out on the ground. 
Sleeping Bag. When selecting a sleeping 
bag, first consider the insulation it provides. 
The following table shows the amount of 
insulation sleepers need at various tempera-
tures when the wind is still. 
Temperature 
(in degrees Fahrenheit) 
-20 
Insulation 
(in inches) 
Wi 
2% 
Down provides maximum insulation at 
minimum weight. In buying a down bag, 
check its loft, that is, its thickness as it lies 
zipped up. The loft of a bag indicates its 
insulating capacity. The table below shows 
the loft needed at various temperatures when 
the wind is not blowing. 
Temperature 
(in degrees Fahrenheit) 
-20 
Loft 
(in inches) 
5% 
6'/2 
Matches. Carry a waterproof container 
filled with wooden matches. It should be 
unbreakable so that, even if you slip into a 
stream, the matches will remain intact. It 
should also include some device for attaching 
it to the clothing. In sheer wilds, it is good 
insurance to carry a second filled container. 
If you are caught in the bush with only 
paper matches, protect them from dampness, 
both perspiration and outer wetness, as much 
as possible. Wrapping the folder in foil or 
plastic will protect heads and stems as well as 
the striking surface. 
Flashlight. Make it a rule never to be 
without a flashlight and know where it is in 
your pack. The best buys in flashlights are the 
palm-sized models weighing 2-3 ounces, in-
cluding a pair of alkaline batteries. Alkaline 
batteries give seven times longer service than 
standard batteries. Carry an extra set of 
batteries and an extra bulb. Keep the bulb 
with personal items where it is not likely to 
be crushed. 
Jackknife. This is the only cutting tool 
needed. It can be used in butchering, making 
fuzzsticks for a fire, cutting laces from 
leather, improvising a fish hook, removing 
splinters, and a myriad other ways. Get a 
sturdy knife with at least two blades, can 
opener and punch. 
Compass. Any compass carried for wilder-
ness use should have a luminous dial. It 
should be rugged and have some provision so 
that it can be attached securely to the person. 
Carry a spare for insurance. 
Equipment and Supplies 

For more about Wilderness Skills . . . 
The information in this booklet, and the illustrations, have been drawn 
from these books about the outdoors published by Stackpole Books: 
LIVING OFF THE COUNTRY 
in which veteran outdoorsman Bradford Angier shows how to 
stay alive in the woods. 
$5.00 
POCKET GUIDE TO ANIMAL TRACKS 
pictures, describes paw and hoof prints and characteristics 
of 44 North American small and big game. 
$2.95 
INTRODUCTION TO BACKPACKING 
offers step-by-step ways to wander in comfort with good 
living and good eating always along. By Robert Colwell. 
$5.95 
SKILLS FOR TAMING THE WILDS 
is a handbook of woodcraft wisdom on fires, cooking, shelters, 
survival, making-do. By Bradford Angier. 
$6.95 
READING THE WOODS 
unfolds the stories told by rocks, soil, forests, plants when 
one sees more in nature's familiar faces. By Vinson Brown. 
$5.95 
BEING YOUR OWN WILDERNESS DOCTOR 
in which Dr. E. R. Kodet, with Angier's help, tells what to 
do and how to do it if you must. 
$3.95 
These and many other Stackpole Books about the outdoors are available 
through bookstores and in school and public libraries. 
Copyright © 1972 by 
The Stackpole Company 
All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form or by 
any 
means, 
electronic 
or mechanical, 
including photocopying, 
recording, or by any information 
storage and retrieval system 
without permission 
writing from the publisher. All inquiries should 
be addressed to Stackpole Books, Cameron and Kelker Streets, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 
17105. 
8950002 
R9805 

MAPBOARD MOVEMENT CHART 
Column (A) shows the terrain; column (B) shows how many Movement Points it costs to enter: 
EXAMPLES: Players may elect to, and in many cases be required to, move across several combinations of varying terrain. The 
distance in hexes is dictated by the Movement Allowance number printed on that player's Person Counter. 
Example 1: Person at Life Level A has a Movement Allowance of 6. Since it only costs him 1 Movement Point to enter each 
Clear Terrain hex, he could move 6 Clear Terrain hexes in one turn. Of course if he were at Life Level D he could only move 
4 Clear Terrain hexes in one turn. 
Example 2: Showing Point costs in parens, here is how a Person at Life Level A would move over varying terrain — onto 
Rough Terrain (2), then onto Clear Terrain (1), and finally onto a Mountain hex (3) where he must end his turn — 
2 + 1 + 3 = 6. 
Example 3: Suppose in Example No. 2 the third hex is a Swamp instead of a Mountain hex. To move onto the Swamp would 
cost 4, 1 more point than he has remaining. Thus, such movement would not be allowed and he would be required to end his 
turn on the second hex entered which was the Clear Terrain hex. Unused movement points, as in this example, are not 
transferable or accumulated from turn to turn. 
Example 4: In the event a player's only movement would take him into a hex that would cost more Movement points than he 
has available for that turn, he is required to remain stationary until an alternate route becomes available or he recovers 
sufficient Life Levels. This could happen to a Person at, say H, who only has 2 Movement Points to spend but must enter a 
Mountain hex, which costs 3, if he is to move at all. 
8950004