Kris Burm
Contents..................................................3 
Aim of the game......................................3
Basic game...............................................4
Standard rules.........................................8

O
V
D
È
Y
S
H

The art of linking the elements.
The fifth game of the GIPF project. For 2 players. 
A 	 C O N T E N T S
-	 	 1 	game board
-	 	18 	white pieces with 3 dots
-	 	18 	black pieces with 3 dots
-	 	 1 	white PÜNCT-piece
-	 	 1 	black PÜNCT-piece
-	 	 1 	bag
-	 	 	this rulebook
B 	 A I M O F T H E G A M E
You must connect two opposite sides of the 
board. To do so you must occupy a series of 
adjacent spaces that lead from one side to the 
other side (see diagram 1).
This game is about the 5th element: 
spirit, in its broadest sense! 
That is, the human mind, 
the mix of conscious and 
subconscious, divine sparks 
of inspiration, the potential 
to create. And therefore, also, 
the sense for meaning, the sense 
for art, the sense for beauty. 
And, last but not least, courage! 
Linking the elements, 
interpreting what exists, 
daring to add a personal touch! 
That is why PÜNCT is a game 
about connecting opposite sides.
Diagram 1: you can connect opposite sides in 
3 different directions.

Basic game
❶
C 	 P R E P A R A T I O N
1/ Place the board between the players so that its long 
side (with the lines marked with letters) runs from 
one player to the other. 
2/	Draw lots for your color. White begins. 
3/	Put your pieces in front of you on the table. At any 
moment your opponent must be able to see which 
pieces you have left.
D 	T H E P I E C E S
1/	The players each have a set of 18 pieces: 6 straight 
pieces, 6 angular pieces and 6 triangular pieces. 
Each piece has 3 dots, one of which is colored. 
E 	 M A K I N G A M O V E
On your turn you have two choices: either you 
add a piece to the game (1), or you move a piece 
that is already in play. When moving a piece that is 
already in play, you have two options again: 
either you move a piece to another place on the 
board (2), or you move it on top of other pieces (3). 
1: Adding a piece
1/ Choose a piece from your set and put it on the 
board. A piece must be placed on the board in such 
a way that each dot covers a space. This means that 
a piece will always occupy 3 spaces. 
2/	The player who goes first may not put his first piece 
in the board’s central hexagon. This restriction only 
holds for the first turn of the first player. For the 
rest of the game, both players may put new pieces 
anywhere on the board, including the central 
hexagon. (See diagram 1 again: the zone with the 
white spaces is the central hexagon.)
3/	A piece must always be added to the game on the 
first level—the level of the board. You may not put 
a new piece on top of pieces that are already in play.
2: Moving a piece
1/ You may only move pieces of your own color.
2/	To move a piece, you must use its PÜNCT (i.e. the 
The colored dot is the principal dot and is called 
the “PÜNCT” of the piece. The other 2 dots are the 
minor dots.
 	 	
6 x 	
	
 	 	
	
 	 	
4 x 	
	
2/	Additionally, each player has one “PÜNCT-piece.” 
This is a round piece with only one dot. It is not 
part of a set, but you can use it as a marker to better 
see how you may move your pieces on the board. 
 	 	
	
1 x
colored dot) to see where you can move it. The 
PÜNCT must always be moved in a straight line. 
You may move it over any number of spaces, over 
other pieces and in and out of the central hexagon 
(see diagram 2a). 
Diagram 2a: the arrows indicate in which directions the piece 
can be moved.
3/ The PÜNCT-piece! The use of this piece (the round 
marker) can be very helpful to learn how to play 
PÜNCT. On your turn, take the piece you want to 
move from the board and put the PÜNCT-piece in 
its place (i.e. put the marker in the space that was 
occupied by the PÜNCT of the piece). The marker 

is now a fixed point on the board. This makes it 
possible to always see where your piece comes 
from and along which lines it can be moved 
(see diagram 2b). 
Diagram 2b: take the piece you want to move and put 
your marker where its PÜNCT was. Then move the piece in 
a straight line.
Note: the PÜNCT-piece may not be left on the board 
and it cannot be part of a connection. You must take 
it back each time you have finished your move.
4/ After moving a piece (i.e. before putting it back on 
the board) you may rotate it. When rotating a piece, 
the PÜNCT must always remain on its spot! In other 
words, the two minor dots may be rotated with the 
PÜNCT as the axis (See diagram 2c). 
Diagram 2c: before putting the piece back on the board, you 
may rotate it with the PÜNCT as its axis.
5/ Moving a piece and rotating it takes one turn, but 
you are not obliged to do both. You may rotate 
a piece without moving it (or move it with no 
rotation), but this still counts as a complete turn.
6/	You may move a piece to the edge of the board, but 
you must always rotate the piece in such a way that 
all dots remain in play.
3: Jumping on top of pieces
To jump on top of other pieces, you must first move 
your piece as described above: move its PÜNCT in 
a straight line to the piece(s) you want to jump onto. 
A few additional rules apply: 
1/	The PÜNCT of the piece must be moved to one of 
your own pieces (it does not matter if you put it on a 
PÜNCT or on a minor dot) (see diagram 3a).
Diagram 3a: the arrows indicate which pieces you can jump 
onto with the marked piece. Note that you cannot move on top 
of the pieces at the let because you may not land a PÜNCT on 
an opponent’s piece.
2/ This means that a PÜNCT can never land on an 
opponent’s piece, but the minor dots can! After 
moving a piece—in this case moving its PÜNCT 
onto one of your own piece—you may rotate it. In 
doing so, you may put its minor dots on any dots 
you can reach, both on your own pieces and on 
your opponent’s pieces (see diagram 3b).

Diagram 3b: you may rotate the piece before putting it on 
top of the other pieces.
3/ When jumping on top of other pieces, you block 
the dots you cover (your opponent’s dots, but 
also your own!). It is sufficient to cover one dot 
of a piece to immobilize it. That piece may not be 
moved nor rotated as long as one or more of its dots 
remain covered.
4/	You can only jump with a piece on top of other 
pieces if there is enough space for its PÜNCT and 
two minor dots on the same level. A piece must 
always be placed on 3 dots, unless you use it to 
make a bridge (see 4: Making a bridge). 
5/	Levels are not limited. A piece may jump one, two 
or more levels high, and it may jump from any 
level to any other level, upwards and downwards. 
For example, a piece that has been moved on top 
of other pieces, no matter at which level, may be 
moved back to the level of the board.
6/	Pieces on top always have precedence. This means 
you can cut your opponent’s connection by 
jumping onto his pieces. 
Reminder: only a piece that is already on the 
board may jump on top of other pieces!
4: Making a bridge
1/ You may use a piece to bridge a gap. The straight 
and the angular pieces each have 2 clearly 
defined ends. If the dots at the ends of such a piece 
are placed on 2 different pieces, it can be used as a 
bridge since the dot in the middle does not need 
to be supported to give the piece a stable position 
(see diagram 4). 
Diagram 4: when jumping with a straight or an angular piece 
on top of other pieces, it is sufficient that the dots at its 2 ends be 
placed on other dots to give it a stable horizontal position. (Very 
rare case: it can happen that you jump with an angular piece on 
top of another angular piece with a twist of 180°. In this case, you 
make a bridge by jumping on top of only one piece.)
2/	A triangular piece has no clearly defined ends, so 
such a piece cannot be used as a bridge. It must 
always be placed on 3 dots.
3/	A piece must always be in a stable horizontal 
position, so the dots at its 2 ends must be supported 
by pieces at the same level.
Note: you can only use the middle dot of a piece 
to make a bridge; you cannot do it with an 
unsupported dot at one of the ends.
4/ A dot that is covered by another piece’s dot is 
blocked. This is also valid for a dot that is bridged 
(i.e. the dot right under the middle of the bridge). 
The piece of which it is part may not be moved, 
even if it would be possible to pick it up without 
disturbing the position of other pieces. 

Note: if there would be an empty space under a 
bridge, this space it blocked. It is not allowed to 
slide a piece under a bridge.
Reminder: to make a bridge, you must jump 
onto other pieces. This means that you can only 
do it with a piece that is already on the board. Its 
PÜNCT must always be moved in a straight line 
and be placed on one of your own pieces!
F 	 E N D O F T H E G A M E
The game ends when a player succeeds in 
connecting two opposite sides. The first player 
to do so wins. Look at the board from above to 
check whether a connection is completed or not. 
(see diagram 5). 
Diagram 5: White wins.
This means:
– Each dot must be visible from above to be part of 
the connection.
– Dots are connected if they occupy adjacent spaces, 
no matter their level.
– A connection can run from any space on one side to 
any space on the opposite side.
– As far as connections go, there is no difference 
between a PÜNCT and a minor dot. Both are part 
of pieces of the same color, so both count. 
If you put your last piece on the board and 
neither you nor your opponent has succeeded 
in completing a connection, the game ends 
undecided. This is a good moment to start playing 
the standard version of PÜNCT.
Important note: a piece on top of other pieces 
can hide important information. PÜNCT is not 
a memory game, so you may pick up a piece to 
have a look at the situation underneath. But to 
avoid disputes over location of pieces temporarily 
lifted, you may not pick up more than one piece 
at a time.

Standard rules
❷
The complete game! There are only two 
differences from the basic version. 
G 	 A D D I N G A P I E C E
When playing the basic game, the first player 
may not place his first piece directly in the central 
hexagon. This restriction now holds for each new 
piece you bring into play. A new piece may never 
be placed directly in the central hexagon, not even 
partially; it must first be placed in the gaming 
area that encircles it. Only pieces that are already on 
the board can be moved into (and out of) the 
central hexagon!
H 	T H E G O A L
There are now 2 ways to win PÜNCT. The first 
goal remains the same as in the basic game: 
connect two opposite sides. The second goal is 
a kind of tie-breaker. If neither of the players 
succeeds in completing a connection, the game 
ends when somebody places their last piece on the 
board. You and your opponent both count how 
many spaces you control in the central hexagon 
(i.e. count how many dots of your color you can 
see from above). The player who controls the most 
spaces is the winner. 
If you and your opponent end up with the same 
number of spaces, the game is a draw.
When you start playing PÜNCT, this second goal 
will rarely determine the winner. In fact, it will 
frequently happen that no piece will be moved 
into the central hexagon in an entire game. But 
that does not matter! As you get better at the game, 
you will learn that you sometimes have to change 
your strategy drastically and focus on moving your 
pieces towards the centre. 
Enjoy it!

1 0

1 1

O
V
D
È
Y
S
H
Warning! Choking hazard. Not suitable for 
children under age of 3 due to small parts. 
Author: Kris Burm
3D: Andreas Resch 
Design: Kris Burm, 
HUCH! & friends
© 2017 Rio Grande Games
© 2017 HUCH! & friends
Distributor:
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 1033
Placitas, NM 87043, USA
www.riograndegames.com
Editor: Simon Hopp
Made in Germany 
Information about the GIPF project: 
games, potentials, digital versions 
and more.
Manufacturer: 
Hutter Trade GmbH + Co KG
Bgm.-Landmann-Platz 1-5, 
89312 Günzburg, GERMANY