GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232–1308
www.GMTGames.com
RULES OF PLAY
1 Dedication................................ 2
2 Introduction............................. 2
3 Rules Summary....................... 3
4 Battle Cards............................. 5
5 Force Cards.............................. 6
6 Getting Started......................... 7
7 The Round of Play................... 8
8 Victims of Fate...................... 10
9 Bonus and Event Cards......... 11
10 Battle Outcome..................... 12
11 Spoils.................................... 13
12 Hand Size.............................. 15
13 Notes on Cards..................... 16
14 Chronological Version.......... 20
15 Short Versions...................... 20
16 Team Version....................... 21
17 Designer’s Notes.................. 21
18 Developer’s Notes................ 23
GMT’S STRATEGY CARD GAME
A BEN KNIGHT GAME
Battleship Indiana fires a salvo at the Kamaishi Steel Works, Japan, 14 July 1945

INTRODUCTION
Pacific Typhoon is a strategy card game for 3–7 players, ages 10 to adult. It has 
many similarities to the card game Atlantic Storm. 
►If you already know how to play Atlantic Storm, just read the sections marked 
with a ►symbol to start playing Pacific Typhoon.
Pacific Typhoon covers the naval and air war in the Pacific theatre during World 
War II, from the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, 7 Dec 1941, to the 
formal surrender of Japan, 2 Sep 1945. Japan was already an Axis power and 
had previously occupied parts of China and the Far East when she declared war 
against the United States and several nations of the British Commonwealth. Being 
an island nation, Japan had limited national resources, and she relied on imports 
and open sea lanes to develop and prosper as a world power. Her military ambi-
tions in the Pacific thus depended heavily upon the success of her navy’s officers, 
ships and aircraft.
The war in the Pacific was a struggle for control of islands, but controlling an 
island meant little if you did not control the seas that connected that island to the 
rest of the world. The surest way to control the seas was to control the air space 
over them. Ships could not long survive where the enemy had air superiority. Even 
submarines, the naval weapon of stealth, had to fear enemy aircraft. However, air 
power was least effective at night, so many vicious naval gun and torpedo battles 
occurred during the hours of darkness in the confined waters around islands. 
Japan won many victories early in the war, but Allied cryptanalysts deciphered 
Japanese messages that permitted the U.S. to ambush and stop Japan’s militaristic 
expansion in June 1942 at the Battle of Midway. It took another three years of 
brutal fighting and two atom bombs before Japan would unconditionally sur-
render. The Japanese suffered severely during this period, but the Allied nations 
(and especially those oppressed by Japanese occupation) also paid a heavy toll 
in human lives lost.
Pacific Typhoon is primarily a game, but it is also a history lesson about the war 
and the brave sailors and airmen who fought on both sides. The cards represent 
many of the combatant vessels and aircraft types, as well as most of the famous 
naval and air battles in which they fought. 
DEDICATION
To the fans of Atlantic Storm: Hearing your laughter at the gaming table when 
you win or lose a round is the best spoil we’ve earned. Thank you for your good-
natured patience in waiting for this sequel game to Storm.
Special thanks to Don Greenwood and the ‘97 AH crew for helping to bring At-
lantic Storm into existence.

RULES SUMMARY
The following summary briefly describes the rules of play. Consult the appropriate 
rules sections for full details about any specific point.
3.1 
Getting Started
Randomly determine dealer.
Dealer shuffles Force Deck and deals a hand of 6 cards to each player. The 
rest go face down as the Draw Pile.
► Dealer shuffles Battle Deck and puts it face down. The Renewed Battle 
card should be in the bottom half of this deck. See Rule 6.3.
Table talk is encouraged, but you may not show your cards to other players 
except when playing or discarding.
3.2 
Round of Play
Each Battle lasts one round of the table. Dealer leads 1st round, player on 
his left leads 2nd round, etc.
Round leader flips over the top two Battle cards, selects one and discards 
the other face up to Battle Discards.
► Round leader calls Time of battle (day or night) and Suit of battle (air, 
surface, sub or combined). See Rule 7.4.
Each player in clockwise turn order, beginning with round leader, must do 
one of the following (you may not pass):
Play at least one legal card, including
No more than one Regular card
Any number of Bonus (+ combat value) cards
Any number of Event (no combat value) cards
OR discard one card instead of playing
OR discard entire hand instead of playing
Each player decides which side to fight on, but no player may play Allied 
and Japanese cards together.
► The Typhoon, Fog, Gremlins and Day or Night event cards can be played 
with either side. See Rule 13.
All plays must match Year of battle. 
► All plays must fit Time of battle. Day cards may not be played at night, 
and vice versa. Cards with an “Either” background may be played day or 
night.
If you play a Fate card after its Victim (victims are marked by a  symbol), 
you immediately destroy the victim (keep it as your spoil) unless the victim 
is a battle card (marked by a  symbol), in which case the fate card’s combat 
values are doubled during the battle.
A bonus card must match the type of its Parent card (aircraft, ship or sub 
card) or be playable alone.

If you play an Admiral event card, you may change the declared suit to 
combined OR play a second regular card.
An illegal play may be taken back into your hand before the next player has 
played or discarded; otherwise, the illegal play is discarded instead.
3.3 
End of R
ound
For each player, determine the combat value of their play(s). Count only 
the values in the declared suit.
► Roll one die for each “?” to determine the combat value of that card. A 
?1 is a die roll plus 1, a ?2 is a die roll plus 2, etc.
► A sun symbol () counts as 1 extra combat point in day battles.
► A moon symbol () counts as 1 extra combat point in night battles.
Total the combat values in declared suit for Allies and for Japanese. The 
side with the highest total wins.
The player who played the highest combat value on the winning side divides 
the Spoils. If tied with another player on the same side, the one who played 
his card(s) first divides the spoils.
If the total combat was tied Allied vs. Japanese, place the engaged cards 
underneath the battle card, refill hands and fight another round for the same 
battle, with next round leader calling suit, etc.
If there were no cards with combat values greater than 0 in the declared suit, 
discard the battle card (no winner) and any force cards in play.
The battle winner takes the battle card and losing enemy cards and divides 
these spoil cards with all players who played a combat value of 1 or more 
on the winning side. 
► The winning side’s cards and any cards marked  (Recycle) are placed 
face up in the Discard Pile.
Place your spoils in front of you, with force-card spoils face down but battle-
card spoils face up so other players can see their resource and VP values. 
Players fill their hands to 6 cards. Increase your hand size by 1 card for 
each full resource or two half-full resource battle cards you have won, but 
never more than 9 cards.
If the Draw Pile is exhausted, shuffle the Discard Pile and use those cards 
as the new Draw Pile.
The next player to lead starts a new round of play.
3.4 
End of Game
Play through end of Battle Deck, then count up the Victory Points (VPs) 
each player has won as spoils.
If two or more players are tied to win, the one who has the most battle 
card VPs wins.
If there is still a tie, the one who has the battle card with the lowest card 
number wins.

BATTLE CARDS
There are 40 battle cards in Pacific Typhoon. Each battle card has the following 
information fields:
Battle Name: The historical name of the battle.
Location or Campaign: The name of a nearby island, island chain, body of 
water or campaign. This provides historical information only.
►Victim Status: A victim battle card has a  symbol if fated by a force card. 
The force card fights at double combat value in that battle.
Year of Battle: 1941 to ‘45. Only force cards that 
match the year of battle may fight in this battle. Force 
cards that appear after this year may not. 
Date of Battle: Historical information only.
►Time of Day: The background of a battle card 
indicates the time of battle.
Resource Value: Your hand size increases based on the resources you win.
	
Full resource (one extra card)
	
Half resource (half of an extra card)
	
No resource (no extra card)
Victory Point Value: Ranges from 0–8 for battle 
cards. Game victory is determined by the number 
of spoil VPs each player has.
Photograph: Taken during the actual battle in 
many cases.
Caption: Historical information only.
Battle Number: The battles are numbered 1–40 
in chronological order. This has no effect on play 
except for breaking a tie at the end of the game.
Day: Sunny sky, blue sea background.
Night: Moonlit sky, black sea background.
Either: Twilight sky, gray sea background (Round 
leader will have the choice of declaring it a day 
or night battle).
Either Time of Day

FORCE CARDS
There are 110 force cards in Pacific Typhoon. Each force card has the following 
information fields:
Card Name: The ID of the card.
2 ►Side: A card’s nationality determines its side.
	 Axis: Japanese
	 Allied: U.S., British, Australian, and Dutch
	 Both: Playable with Allied or Japanese
►Victim Status: A victim force card has a  
symbol if fated by an enemy card. 
Air Combat Value
Surface Combat Value
6 Sub/Anti-sub Combat Value
7 Years Available: A force card is only playable during the years displayed. For 
example, Iowa is playable in a ’44 or ’45 battle but not in a ’41, ’42 or ’43 
battle.
8 ►Time of Day: The background of a force card indicates its time of day. A 
force card may only be played if it matches the declared time of battle.
	 	 Day: sunny sky, blue sea background
	 	 Night: moonlit sky, black sea background
	 	 Either: twilight sky, gray sea background (playable day or night)
9 Type: The shape of the photograph indicates the card’s type (see graphics at 
bottom of this page and next). A bonus card may only attach to a parent card of 
the same type, except an “any” bonus card may attach to any other type.
	 	 Aircraft (includes aircraft carriers): windscreen frame
	 	 Ship: binoculars frame
	 	 Sub: circle frame
	 	 Any: square frame
10 Photograph: Wartime photo in most cases.
11 Restrictions or History: The text of some cards 
explains their effect on play. 	
	
	
 	 BONUS = bonus card; 
	 	 EVENT = event card; 
	 	 RESCUE = special ability.
12 Fated Against: The name of its victim card.
13 Victory Point Value: Ranges from 0–6 points, or 
 = Recyclable (it may not be destroyed).
Ship (binoculars frame)

GETTING STARTED
Like most card games, Pacific Typhoon is played sitting around a table. It is best 
suited for 4–6 players. You could play it with 3 or 7 players, but it is not as sat-
isfying an experience.
6.1 
Determine D
ealer
Randomly determine the dealer and (if desired) the order of seating at the table. 
You can do this by dice roll or by each player drawing a battle card and sitting in 
relative order according to the card numbers drawn, from lowest number (dealer) 
to highest. (Return the cards to the Battle Deck afterwards.)
6.2 
Force D
eck 
The dealer shuffles the Force Deck and deals each player a hand of 6 cards. Place 
the remaining force cards face down. This is the Draw Pile. 
6.3 
► Battle D
eck
The dealer (or someone he appoints) removes the Renewed Battle card from the 
Battle Deck and divides the Battle Deck into two halves, one with 20 cards and the 
other with 19. Add the Renewed Battle card to the pile of 19 so you’re left with 
two piles of 20 battle cards. Shuffle each pile separately and then put the stack that 
does not include the Renewed Battle card on top of the stack that does. In this way 
the Renewed Battle card will not appear until the second half of the game.
6.4 
Etiquette
Never show your cards to other players except when playing or discarding them. 
Conversation between players is permitted and encouraged but it must be open. 
You may talk about your cards to other players as long as you do so openly to the 
whole table (and don’t show them). Don’t leave the table to discuss the game in 
private, and don’t annoy other players by whispering or keeping notes. Otherwise, 
try to talk other players into working against the person with the highest score 
(which is not always apparent in the middle of a game) or on supporting your own 
effort. A player doesn’t have to keep a promise—when it’s his turn, he may play 
what he pleases regardless of any assurances he gave you.
Aircraft (windscreen frame)
Sub (circle frame)
Any (square frame)

THE ROUND OF PLAY
The game is played in rounds (also called Battles). Each player gets to play once 
per round in clockwise order, starting with the round leader. Players take turns 
leading the rounds. 
7.1 
Round L
eader 
The dealer leads the 1st round. At the end of that round, the player on his left leads 
the 2nd round. At the end of that round, the next player on the left leads the 3rd 
round, and so forth clockwise around the table for the entire game.
7.2 
Leader Selects Battle
The player who leads a round draws two cards from the Battle Deck and flips them 
face up. He selects one for battle and discards the other one face up to the Battle 
Discards. Skip this battle selection step if the battle is continuing from the previous 
round (see Battle Outcome, Tied Battle). The round leader must announce the year 
of the battle card after he selects it (the battle card’s year is printed on the card, 
and it limits what force cards may be played). 
► Renewed Battle: If the round leader selects Renewed Battle as the battle card, 
he exchanges Renewed Battle for one battle card from another player’s spoils. He 
may then announce the card’s year or choose a different year for that battle, except 
the year he chooses may not precede the year printed on the card.
7.3 
► L
eader Selects T
ime
The round leader then chooses “Day” or “Night” and announces this to the other 
players. The declared time limits what force cards can be played. Force cards 
with a day background may only be played during a day battle; force cards with 
a night background may only be played during a night battle. Force cards with a 
twilight background may be played day or night. You may never declare “Either” 
as the time of battle. 
7.4 
Leader Selects Suit
After choosing the time, the round leader chooses and announces the suit (opera-
tion type) of the battle. There are four choices: 
Air
Surface
Sub
Combined
The suit determines what combat values apply to the battle’s outcome. Combat 
values that don’t match the suit are treated as 0 during the battle. If the suit is 
combined, all three combat values apply. The round leader always calls the suit 
and time for the battle, even if he discards instead of plays.

7.5 
Must Play or D
iscard
After the year, time and suit are chosen, each player, starting with the round leader 
and going in clockwise order around the table once, may do one of three things:
Play face up at least one legal card from his hand, including:
One Regular card (any card that is not a bonus or event card). You may 
not play more than one regular card unless you use the Admiral event 
ability to do so.
Any number of Bonus cards (a bonus card has + combat values) that are 
playable. The bonus card(s) must attach to the regular card (its Parent) 
or be playable without a parent card.
Any number of Event cards that are playable per their restrictions (an 
event card has no combat values).
Or discard one card from his hand to the Discard Pile instead of playing.
Or discard his entire hand to the Discard Pile instead of playing.
7.6 
May O
nly Play O
ne Side
A player usually has a mix of Allied and Japanese Force cards in his hand. You 
are free to choose which side you fight on during the battle, but you may never 
play cards from both sides together. For example, if you play an Allied regular 
card, you may not play a Japanese bonus or event card with it. In the case of Allied 
cards, the exact nationality doesn’t matter. For example, you may attach a U.S. 
bonus card to an Australian parent card.
7.7 
No Passing
You may not “pass” your turn. You don’t have to play a card during your turn, 
even if you have a card that matches the battle’s year and the declared time. But 
if you don’t play, you must choose one of the two discard options. 
7.8 
► I llegal Play
If you make an illegal play and it is noticed before the next player makes his play 
or discards, then you must take the illegal play back into your hand and re-do your 
turn. If the illegal play is not noticed until after the next player makes his play or 
discards, then your illegal play is discarded and does not affect the battle. There 
are several ways your play may be illegal, including:
You play an Allied card together with a Japanese card (in which case treat 
both as illegal).
The force card’s earliest year is later than the battle card’s year.
The force card’s time is opposite to the declared time of battle.
A bonus card’s type doesn’t fit its parent’s type (in which case the bonus 
card is illegal).
The card’s restriction (printed on the card) doesn’t allow it to be played.
You are allowed to play a card that has a combat value of 0 in the declared suit.

Victims of Fate
A force card that lists another card’s name on it is a 
Fate card. It is fated against that listed card (its victim). 
This is based on historical occurrences. For example, 
the Japanese I-26 submarine sank the USS Juneau in 
real life, so in the game the I-26 card is fated to sink the 
Juneau card. A fate card may itself be a victim to some 
other fate card—the two things are not exclusive.
8.1 
Announcing F
ate
A fate card only affects its victim if you play the fate card after the victim in the 
current round (not in a previous round). If you play a fate card and its victim is 
played later in the round, the victim does not suffer its fate. You should announce 
the victim when you reveal the fate card. If you fail to announce it before the battle 
outcome is determined, the fate does not occur. 
A fate card targets its victim even if the fate card has a 0 combat value in the 
declared suit. For example, if the round leader called “Day Air” and played the 
Juneau, a player after him could play the I-26 and immediately sink the Juneau 
even though the I-26 has a combat value of 0 in an air battle.
8.2 
Kinds of Victims
A Victim may be one of three kinds: a force card worth 0–6 VPs, a force card that 
is recyclable, or a battle card worth 0–8 VPs. How the fate card works against 
each kind varies slightly:
VP Force Card (): You immediately destroy the victim. Remove it from 
the battle and place it face down in front of you as your spoil.
Recyclable Force Card (): These are marked with a 
 in place of a VP 
value. You immediately discard the victim. Remove it from the battle and 
place it face up in the Discard Pile.
Battle Card (): You double the combat value of your fate card in this 
battle (when doubling a “?”, double the die roll result rather than roll two 
dice). Do not double the combat value of any bonus cards you attach to 
your fate parent card, and do not double the combat value of a parent card 
if an attached bonus card is a fate card.
8.3 
Victim Parent C
ard
If the victim was a parent to a bonus card, discard the bonus card (don’t destroy it). 
For example, the round leader plays Maya with the Long Lance and Ocean Patrol 
bonus cards attached (Maya is the parent of the bonus cards). The 2nd player plays 
Dace and calls “fate” against Maya. Maya becomes the 2nd player’s spoil, and 
Long Lance and Ocean Patrol are discarded because they require a parent card. 

Bonus and Event Cards
9.1 
► Bonus C
ards
Bonus cards have “+” combat values. Add their combat values to the combat val-
ues of the regular card you play. The Kamikaze bonus card has * combat values 
instead of + values. Replace the regular card’s combat values with the kamikaze 
combat values. Most bonus cards may only be played in conjunction with a regular 
card. This regular card is called the bonus card’s parent, and the bonus card is 
said to “attach to the parent” card. Shinyo Flotilla, Ha-10, Ohka and PT 109 may 
be played without a parent, but if they are played in addition to a regular card, 
they must match that regular card’s type. You may never attach a bonus card to a 
regular card that someone else has played.
9.2 
Parent T
ypes
There are three types of parent cards based on the shape of its photograph 
frame:
Aircraft (includes aircraft carriers): windscreen frame
Ship: wide rectangle frame
Submarine: circle frame
A bonus card must match its parent type. For example, Turkey Shoot must attach 
to an Allied parent card of the aircraft type. Ocean Patrol and Coast Watchers may 
attach to any of the three parent types—they are not restricted to one type only. 
A bonus card may not be attached to another bonus card or to an event card, but 
two or more bonus cards may be attached to the same parent.
9.3 
► E
vent C
ards
Event Cards are recognizable by having no combat values (or negative combat 
values in the case of Gremlins). You may play one or more event cards during 
your turn either by themselves or in addition to your regular and/or bonus card 
plays. The event card(s) must be of the same side as your other card plays, but the 
Allied nationalities don’t have to match. Typhoon, 
Day or Night, Fog and Gremlins are playable with 
either side. 
Each event card has an effect printed on it. The effect 
supersedes the normal rules of play. See the Notes 
on Cards section of the rules for details about each 
event card.
9.4 
Recycle
Most bonus and event cards have a  symbol in place of a VP value. The  stands 
for Recycle. Such a card is discarded at the end of the round it is played, no matter 
what the battle outcome is.

Battle Outcome
A battle ends after the last player in a round plays or discards. When the battle 
ends, roll a die for each “?” in the declared suit; a ?1 is a die roll plus 1, a ?2 is a 
die roll plus 2, etc. A sun symbol () in the declared suit counts as 1 extra combat 
point in day battles (thus 0 equals 1 during day but 0 at night). A moon symbol 
in the declared suit () counts as 1 extra combat point in night battles (thus 2 
equals 3 at night but 2 during day). 
Total the combat values of the played cards for each side (Allied vs. Japanese), but 
count only the combat values in the declared suit. If the suit is combined, count all 
of the combat values. There are three possible outcomes to a battle: No Combat, 
Tied Combat, or One Side Wins. 
10.1 
No C
If there are no force cards in play at the end of the round, or if the only force 
cards in play have 0 combat values in the declared suit or no combat values (event 
cards), then the battle outcome is “no combat.” Discard the battle card to the Battle 
Discards pile, and discard any force cards in play (including engaged cards from 
a previous round) to the Discard Pile. 
Example of N
o C
It’s a Day Surface battle for Coral Sea in a 4-player game. The round leader 
plays Repulse. The next player plays Betty and calls fate against Repulse, sinking 
it immediately. The 3rd player in the round discards instead of plays. The last 
player plays Wildcat and calls fate against Betty, destroying it. Although there 
has been fighting in the form of fate cards and their victims, the only remaining 
card in play (Wildcat) has a 0 combat value in Surface, which was the declared 
suit. So the battle outcome is treated as no combat, and Coral Sea and Wildcat 
are both discarded. 
10.2 
Tied C
If the total Allied combat value equals the total Japanese combat value, it is a “tied 
combat.” The force cards are Engaged and that battle continues as follows:
Place the engaged force cards (including Recyclable ones) underneath the battle 
card and fight a new round for that same battle card. Players fill their hands, and 
the next player whose turn it is to lead a round declares the time and suit for the 
new round. He may call the same time and suit or different ones. Players may 
change sides—they are not committed to playing on the same side as they did 
in the previous round. The engaged force cards underneath the battle card do 
not affect the outcome of the new round, and they cannot be victimized by fate 
cards played in the new round. Likewise, the effects of Typhoon, Day or Night 
or Tokyo Rose do not carry over into the new round. A battle can be extended for 
more than one round in this manner as long as each round ends in a tied combat 
between Allies and Japanese.
If the round ends in a tie, but Little Boy has taken the battle card, then the engaged 
force cards are discarded as if the outcome was no combat.

10.3 
One Side Wins
The side with the highest total combat value wins the battle. The losing side’s 
cards are destroyed (except for those that Recycle), and the winning side’s cards 
are discarded. The player on the winning side who contributed the highest combat 
value for that side is the battle winner. He gets to divide the spoils of the battle. 
If two or more players on the winning side contributed the same highest combat 
value, then the one who played his card(s) before the other highest contributor gets 
to divide the spoils. (This is known as “Getting there firstest with the mostest.”)
Example of Winning C
It’s a Night Surface battle for Kolombangara in a 4-player game. The round 
leader plays Cryptanalysts, which allows him to play last as Allied. The next 
player plays Henley (1 combat value), and the 3rd player discards his hand. The 
4th player plays ABDA Strike Force (? combat value). The round leader (who 
delayed his play with Cryptanalysts) then plays Santa Fe and Coast Watchers 
for a total of 3 combat value (2+1). The 4th player now rolls a die to determine 
the combat value of ABDA Strike Force and he gets a 3 result. The Allied side 
wins the battle 7 to 0 even though there has been no apparent fight (since no one 
played a Japanese card). The 4th player divides the spoils, because he committed 
ABDA Strike Force to the battle before the round leader committed Santa Fe and 
Coast Watchers (which came as the last play). Both of those players contributed 
3 combat value, which was the highest on the winning side. So the player who 
committed his 3 first is the winner and gets to divide the spoils, which in this case 
is just the Kolombangara card.
Spoils
A player earns victory points (VPs) by collecting spoils in battle. Collecting the 
most spoils is the only way to win the game.
11.1 
What C
onstitutes Spoils
Spoils include the battle card itself and all force cards of the losing side except any 
Recyclable ones. All engaged cards belonging to the losing side are also treated 
as spoils (except any Recyclable ones). Each spoil card is worth a number of VPs 
as indicated on the card. A battle card may be worth 0–8 VPs, and a force card 
may be worth 0–6 VPs. 
All force cards from the winning side and all Recyclable force cards from the 
losing side are put into the Discard Pile. They are not spoils.
11.2 
Dividing the Spoils
The winner of the battle must divide the spoil cards among himself and every 
player who has in play a combat value of 1 or higher on the winning side at the 
end of the round. If you played on the winning side but your combat value was 0, 
or your play was removed because it was victimized or discarded by Typhoon or 
some other reason by the end of the round, then you are not eligible for spoils.

Each player on the winning side must receive a spoil card before any one of them 
may receive a second spoil card (and each of them must receive a second spoil 
card before any one of them may receive a third spoil card, etc.). The winner who 
divides the spoils doesn’t have to distribute the VPs evenly; he just has to distribute 
the spoil cards evenly. So he will generally keep the highest-value VP spoil card(s) 
for himself and distribute the lower-valued ones to the other winning players.
You do not have to keep any promises you make to other players regarding the 
division of the spoils. Just because you promised a juicy spoil to someone for 
supporting your side in the battle doesn’t mean you have to honor that promise 
when you divide the spoils after winning.
If Catalina or Amagiri is used to rescue a spoil card, this occurs before the spoils 
are divided (see rule 13.10).
11.3 
Points on T
able
As you win spoil cards, place them on the table in front of you. Your resource 
spoils (battle cards and Rosie the Riveter) must stay face up so players may see 
their resource and VP values. Your other spoil cards should stay face down. In 
this way, you can hide their VP value from other players. Players may not record 
or inspect the VP value of hidden spoils belonging to other players until the end 
of the game.
11.4 
More than Y
our Share
If you played a fate card to destroy a victim, the victim goes into your spoil pile, 
but it doesn’t count against any spoils that may be due you at the end of the battle. 
If you played Rosie the Riveter and the Allies win, that card doesn’t count against 
your share of the spoils. Likewise, if you played Little Boy and are successful in 
getting the battle card, it doesn’t count against your share of the spoils.
11.5 
End of Game
The game ends after 20 battles (when there are no more battle cards to select). At 
that time, count up the spoil VPs each player earned. The player with the highest 
total wins. If two or more players are tied to win, the one who has the most battle 
card VPs wins. If they are still tied to win, the one who has the lowest battle card 
number wins.
Example of Spoils
It’s a Day Air battle for Midway in a 4-player game. The round leader () plays 
Enterprise. The 2nd player () plays Hiryu. The 3rd player () plays Akagi. Al-
though Akagi is the victim of Enterprise, she avoids the fate by being played after 
Enterprise. The 4th player () plays Dauntless, which is fated against Hiryu and 
immediately destroys her. It’s the end of the round, so the 1st and 3rd players each 
roll one die to determine their combat values. The 1st player rolls a 3. Because the 
Enterprise has an air combat value of ?1, he has contributed 4 to the battle (3+1). 
The 3rd player rolls a 2 for the ? air combat value of Akagi. The 4th player has an 
air combat value of 1 for the Allies. So the Allies win 5 to 2, and the 1st player is 
the battle winner because he contributed the highest Allied combat value. There 
are two spoil cards, which he must divide between himself and the 4th player. He 
gives Akagi to the 4th player and keeps Midway.

Hand Size
At the end of each round, after the battle outcome has been determined and before 
the start of the new round, each player draws enough cards from the Draw Pile to 
fill his hand to his hand size. 
12.1 
Resources I ncrease H
and Size
Your base hand size is 6 cards, but your spoil resources may increase this up to a 
maximum of 9 cards. For every full-resource spoil card you have, increase your 
hand size by 1 card. For every half-resource spoil you have, increase your hand 
size by 1/2 card (so you must have two half-resource spoils before you can draw 
an extra card). Empty-resource spoils do not increase your hand size.
12.2 
► E
xceeding Y
our H
and Size
If the number of cards in your hand equals or exceeds your hand size, you won’t 
draw any new cards at the end of the round, but you don’t have to discard down 
either. For instance, if you lose a resource because another player used Renewed 
Battle to steal a battle card from your spoils, the number of cards in your hand may 
exceed your hand size. This is okay—just keep playing. At some point, the number 
of cards in your hand will drop below your hand size, and you may draw again.
12.3 
New D
raw Pile
When the Draw Pile is exhausted, shuffle the Discard Pile and place it face down 
as the new Draw Pile.
Example of Spoils—continued





► Notes on Cards
13.1 
Yamamoto and H
alsey
These are admiral event cards. You may play an admiral card alone 
or in addition to your other plays. When you play an admiral, you 
do one of two things: 
Change the declared suit to combined. This affects all players 
in the round. You may not change suit from (for example) air 
to sub; you may only change it to combined. If the admiral 
card is discarded before the end of the battle due to Typhoon, 
the suit remains combined—it doesn’t revert (this represents 
a change from the rule in Atlantic Storm).
OR you may play 2 regular cards instead of 1. You may at-
tach bonus cards to either or both of those regular cards as 
permitted.
13.2 
Tora, T
ora, T
ora! and C
ryptanalysts
Surprise was a major factor in the Japanese success at Pearl Harbor. 
U.S. code-breakers contributed to the Allied victory at Midway, the 
ambush of Yamamoto, and other victories during the war. 
Playing one of these event cards during your normal turn allows you 
to play last in the round, but you may only play that side or discard. 
As usual, playing last allows you to see what everyone else has played 
(except any cards hiding beneath Fog), perhaps to fate them or to play a victim 
card safely, but you won’t win any ties since you’re playing after everyone else. 
If you play Cryptanalysts and someone plays Tokyo Rose against 
you before your final play, you won’t be able to play Allied because 
of Tokyo Rose, and you won’t be able to play Japanese because of 
Cryptanalysts, so you can only discard Cryptanalysts. Tora, Tora, 
Tora! and Cryptanalysts are fated against each other, so if one appears 
after the other in the round, the first one is discarded and that player 
loses his turn—he may not play any more this round.
13.3 
Shangri-La and D
ecisive Battle
When reporters asked President Roosevelt where Doolittle’s bomb-
ers had come from, he replied, “Shangri-La,” referring to the hidden 
retreat in the recently popular novel and film The Lost Horizon. 
Japan’s Naval General Staff often developed plans to defeat the 
larger U.S. fleet by concentrating their forces for a 
decisive showdown. 
If you play either of these event cards, it must be the first card you 
play. They allow you to discard any number of cards from your 
hand and refill it before finishing your play, but you may only play 
that side. If you can’t or don’t want to play that side, then you must 

discard the Shangri-La or Decisive Battle to end your turn. When refilling your 
hand after playing Shangri-La or Decisive Battle, don’t count that card play against 
your hand size. For example, if you played Shangri-La and made no other discards, 
you could still draw a replacement for Shangri-La before continuing your turn. 
The round leader must pick a battle and declare the suit and time of battle before 
he plays either of these cards.
13.4 
Rosie the R
iveter
You may play this event alone or in addition to an Allied play. It 
represents the industrial might of America (U.S. shipbuilding and 
aircraft production far outstripped Japan’s). If the Allies win this 
battle (whether it occurs this round or in a subsequent round if this 
round is tied), keep Rosie as a face-up resource spoil for yourself. 
Discard Rosie if the Allies lose the battle or if it ends with a no-
combat outcome. Rosie doesn’t count against any share of spoils 
that may be due you after the battle.
13.5 
Little Boy
The first atomic bomb, “Little Boy,” was dropped on Hiroshima on 
6 Aug 1945; the second bomb, “Fat Man,” was dropped 3 days later 
on Nagasaki. The U.S. used the bombs to hasten the end of the war 
and to avoid having to invade Japan. 
You must keep Little Boy as a spoil regardless of the battle outcome 
(thus you lose 3 VPs for unleashing atomic weapons upon the world). 
The battle outcome is determined normally, but if you roll 1–5 at the end of the 
round, you get the battle card as a free spoil, even if the Japanese win the battle. 
It doesn’t count against any share of the spoils that may be due you if the Allies 
win. If you get the battle card and the battle outcome is a tie between the two 
sides, then the battle does not continue into a new round and the other cards are 
discarded instead of being engaged.
13.6 
Tokyo R
ose
None of the English-speaking announcers on Radio Tokyo actually 
used the name “Tokyo Rose,” but it was popularized by the Allied 
press. Iva Toguri was convicted after the war for her broadcasts but 
later pardoned. 
This event card may be played alone or in addition to a Japanese play. 
Select 2 players who will be playing after you in this round, and they 
may not play Allied. If Tokyo Rose is discarded by Typhoon before one (or both) 
of those selected players takes his turn, the restriction on them still applies.
13.7 
Typhoon
Typhoon is not playable before 1944 because most of the battles before then oc-
curred in regions less affected by such severe weather. 

This event card may be played alone or with either side. It stops as soon as it is 
effective, or at the end of the current round, whichever occurs first. If it fails and is 
passed to a player who plays Cryptanalysts or Tora, Tora, Tora!, he 
must roll for it, and if it continues to fail and is passed to him again at 
the end of the round, he must roll for it again. It never continues into 
the next round, even if the battle outcome is tied. A player who loses 
his turn because of Typhoon does not get to roll for Day or Night if 
it is passed to him—he must pass it to the next player. 
13.8 
Day or N
ight
This event card may be played alone or with either side. It stops as soon as it is 
effective, or at the end of the current round, whichever occurs first. If it is passed 
to a player and his roll fails, but he plays Cryptanalysts or Tora, Tora, Tora!, and it 
continues to fail and is passed to him again at the end of the round, he must roll for 
it again. If the battle time switches, there may be some cards played 
previously in this round that are now illegal plays, so they should 
be discarded. Never discard the battle card, even if the changed time 
does not match the time printed on the battle. The time switch stays 
in effect even if Typhoon is used later in the round to discard the Day 
or Night card from play. If a player loses his turn for any reason, he 
does not roll for Day or Night but passes it to the next player.
13.9 
Fog
This event card may be played with either side. Only one regular 
card and/or any permissible bonus cards may be played beneath Fog. 
You may play additional valid cards in your same turn, but they are 
never hidden by Fog. For instance, you could play Akagi face-down 
beneath Fog and also play the Yamamoto event and Val face-up. 
Cards hidden by Fog are revealed after all other players have played, 
so you can hide what side you played on until the end of the round. Revealing 
your play last is not the same as playing after everyone else plays. Your turn order 
in the round is still the same as if you didn’t play beneath Fog. In this way, you 
benefit when tying with another player on the same side if you play before him, 
even though you don’t reveal your play until the end of the round. For the same 
reason, Fog doesn’t allow you to escape fate:
If you play a victim card beneath Fog, and its fate card is played after your 
play, and that fate card is still in play when you reveal your victim, then 
your victim card must suffer its fate. 
However, if the fate card is played after your victim play, but that fate card 
is itself victimized or discarded for some reason before you reveal your 
victim at the end of the round, then your victim is saved from its fate.
If you play a fate card beneath Fog, and its victim was played before your 
play, then you don’t fate the victim until you reveal your fate card at the 

end of the round. So if that victim is discarded first for any reason, you’ve 
missed your opportunity to fate it.
If the victim of your fate card is played after your play, then it is safe from 
your fate card because you played before it. 
13.10 Catalina and A
magiri
PBY Catalina flying boats rescued countless aviators from the sea, 
allowing them to return to battle again. The Amagiri towed disabled 
warships to port on two occasions during the Solomons Campaign, 
saving them from loss. 
Unlike event cards, you may use either of these two cards for its 
combat values or for its ability, but you may not use the ability if 
the card is already deployed in the battle for its combat value. The card must be 
in your hand when you use its ability. You then discard it and also discard the 
“rescued” card, thus denying that spoil to someone and saving it from destruction. 
The rescue should occur when the victim has been announced (in the 
case of fate), or before spoils are divided (in the case of battle losses). 
If there is more than one spoil card matching the criteria in the battle, 
the player using the Catalina or Amagiri gets to choose the one that 
is rescued. You may use these cards for their abilities even if you 
play (or already played) on the other side during the battle. 
13.11 Gremlins
Gremlins were mythical creatures that Allied airmen blamed for 
mechanical failures during the war. They were popularized in a 
children’s book by Roald Dahl published in 1943, and in some 
Warner Bros. cartoons released that same year. 
This event card may be played alone or with either side. Play it against 
another player, whether he has already played this round or not, and 
regardless of the side he plays on. It reduces the combat value of his play, but 
never below 0 in any of the three suits. For example, in a Combined battle where 
someone targeted with Gremlins played a cruiser with values of 1 air, 2 surface 
and 0 sub (3 total), the cruiser would be reduced to 0 air, 1 surface and 0 sub (for 
1 total). The –1 to its sub value would have no effect.
13.12 Allied C
odenames for A
ircraft
Allied and Japanese aircraft are identified by their Allied codenames instead of their 
official designations (for example, Hellcat instead of F6F). The Allies used male 
names for Japanese fighters and recon seaplanes, and female names for Japanese 
bombers and other recon aircraft. The codename for the Zero-Sen (Type 00 navy 
fighter) was Zeke, but most Allied servicemen called it simply Zero.

► Chronological Version
Some players prefer fighting the battles in chronological order. This requires 
more card sorting and shuffling than in the standard version of the game. Use the 
standard rules with the following changes:
Remove Rennell Island, Ormoc Bay and Renewed Battle from the Battle 
Deck so you only have 37 battle cards.
Arrange the Battle Deck in reverse order of sequence, with Pearl Harbor 
on top and Home Islands on the bottom.
Sort the Force Deck into five stacks based on year.
Shuffle the 1941 force cards and deal a hand of 3 cards to each player. The 
rest of the 1941 force cards go face down as the Draw Pile.
The round leader flips over the top two battle cards, picks one to fight and 
discards the other as in the standard version. 
When the first battle card of the next year is flipped over, do as follows: 
Shuffle that year’s force cards into the current Draw Pile.
Increase the hand size of each player by 1 card, except in 1945. 
The base hand size depends on the current year:
Never shuffle the Discard Pile into the Draw Pile until the Draw Pile is 
empty.
The last battle of the war is always Home Islands.
► Short Versions
To play a short standard version, make these two changes to finish the game after 
13 battles:
Remove the Renewed Battle card from the Battle Deck so you only have 
39 battle cards.
The round leader always flips over the top three battle cards (instead of the 
top two), picks one and discards the other two.
To play a short chronological version, make these changes to finish the game 
after 13 battles:
Year
Hand Size
1941
3 cards plus 1 per resource spoil
1942
4 cards plus 1 per resource spoil, not to exceed 7 cards
1943
5 cards plus 1 per resource spoil, not to exceed 8 cards
1944 & 1945
6 cards plus 1 per resource spoil, not to exceed 9 cards

Instead of removing Rennell Island, Ormoc Bay and Renewed Battle from 
the Battle Deck, remove Wake Island, Cape Esperance and Renewed Battle 
so you only have 37 battle cards.
Follow the other rules of the chronological version except the round leader 
flips over the top three battle cards, picks one and discards the other two.
► Team Version
I would be remiss to Mark McLaughlin if I didn’t include a team version of the 
game. He and a few others have told me how much their groups enjoy playing 
Atlantic Storm with an even number of players (4 or 6) split between the two sides. 
Use the standard rules with these changes:
Divide the players into equal teams. They should sit at the table in alter-
nating positions so each player has an enemy player on both sides of him 
in round order.
Remove Fog, Day or Night, Gremlins and Typhoon from the Battle 
Deck.
Sort the remaining force cards into two draw piles—one consisting of 
Allied cards for the Allied team and one consisting of Japanese cards for 
the Japanese team.
The team with the most VPs at the end wins.
You can also play a Team Chronological Version or a Team Short Version by 
combining the team rules with either of those rule sections.
Designer’s Notes
The idea for a Pacific version of Atlantic Storm occurred quickly enough. Some 
of the playtesters of Storm expressed their desire for a sequel set in the Pacific 
even before the original game came out in 1998. Mark McLaughlin was the first 
to approach me with a Pacific prototype he designed based on the Storm system. 
John Coussis was the next to talk to me about it (see his Developer’s Notes below), 
and later Stephane Laulhere and Steve Cuyler came forward with their prototypes 
of the same. 
When you begin to think about the idea, you realize there are several alternate paths 
to take. You can do a Silent Service version that emphasizes the U.S. submarine 
war against Japan in the way Storm emphasizes the U-Boat war. You can do a 
naval battles version that emphasizes famous battles such as Midway and Leyte 
Gulf. Or you can do an island-hopping version that emphasizes ground forces as 
much as ships and planes.
The latter approach appealed to me most, and we tested such a version even as 
recently as 2003. The suits were air, land and sea, and at first I included every front 
in the Pacific, so the battles ranged from Pearl Harbor to Imphal, and from the 
Coral Sea to Manchuria. Some battles excluded ships, and some battles excluded 

ground forces, but most battles revolved around islands and fit perfectly into an 
air-land-sea system. Furthermore, the round leader declared if it was a day battle or 
night battle. The force cards comprised a sampling of everything from Essex-class 
carriers to Merrill’s Marauders, and from Japanese paratroopers to the Yamato. 
The Pacific War is so full of great stories, and I wanted to present a wide selection. 
But the game was too ambitious, so I trimmed and trimmed, then trimmed some 
more. We enjoyed the game, but it lacked the finely-balanced interaction of suits 
that Storm has. Finally, I set it aside and created a naval battles version that was 
closer to the original game. It worked great, and John and I carefully developed 
that into what you have now.
If you’ve never played Atlantic Storm or Pacific Typhoon, you might be confused 
at first by the unusual structure of the game play: In the standard version, players 
are not assigned to sides and battles do not occur in tidy, chronological order. 
There are two simple reasons for this. 
First, we want to recreate the uncertainty and chaos of war—you should be look-
ing over your shoulder (figuratively) the whole time. Where is the enemy, and 
what is he capable of? Will reinforcements arrive for your forces in time? Who 
will receive the credit for victory or the blame for defeat? What battle might occur 
next, and should you be saving your strength for it? This uncertainty makes card 
management and decision-making more important. Fear and hesitation creep into 
your mind when the next battle might be better to fight for than the current battle, 
and you don’t know how much to trust the guy playing after you.
Second, we want table talk in the game. The best way to increase table talk is to 
have negotiation. If all of the players are potential enemies and potential allies, 
there is good reason to discuss the situation with those who are playing after you. 
Point fingers and declare that someone else is winning. Appeal for help with the 
offer of giving assistance in a future battle. Hide your greed behind a façade of 
friendly support. Experienced players keep a running commentary during a battle, 
declaring each side’s combat strength, and noting who stands to win. For example, 
“It’s currently 7 Allied Air to 4 Japanese. Can you play at least 3 Japanese Air to tie 
the battle? Otherwise, Roy is going to win the battle, and we don’t want that!”
Those are our reasons for the standard version. But we understand some players 
still want to play in teams or to fight the battles in historical order. For them we 
provide the Team and Chronological Versions. Playing the game in chronologi-
cal order may also help you memorize the decks better, which is an important 
advantage in competitive, tournament-level play.
Historical purists may point out that certain ships were available before the year 
given on their cards. For example, Yamashiro is treated as a ‘44+ card when it 
was available at the start of the war. This was a design choice to distribute the 
cards across the years in a balanced way so neither side was too lopsided. In doing 
so, I didn’t ignore history. Case in point: Yamashiro’s wartime participation was 
negligible before 1944. 
Historical purists might also raise an eyebrow because the game allows a ship 
to fight in a late-war battle when historically it was sunk before that time, or to 

fight in a late-war battle and then to be destroyed in an early-war battle later in 
the game. This is a design choice to allow all force cards to be playable in 1945; 
it represents the build up of forces as the war progressed. Furthermore, many of 
the ships lost during the war had sister ships that aren’t included in the deck, and 
some ships that were lost had their names given to newer ships. For instance, 
carrier Lexington (CV-2) was lost in 1942, but a new carrier Lexington (CV-16) 
joined the fleet in 1943.
As always, play to have fun, and if good luck abandons you, blame the guy who 
shuffled the deck.
Developer’s Notes
It didn’t take long for Atlantic Storm to become a favorite of my Chicago area 
gaming group. We all enjoyed the mechanics of the game as well as the historical 
setting. After a few months of repeated playings, fellow Chicagoan Lou Tokarz 
and I began tossing around ideas of a Pacific Version of the game. We thought 
instead of fighting over convoys, the game would revolve around fighting over the 
numerous island groups in the Pacific (Hawaii, Midway, Iwo Jima, Okinawa, you 
get the idea). Island battles still offered three different battle possibilities (only thing 
different from Atlantic Storm would be a “Land” suit instead of the “Sub” suit) 
and we really didn’t think it would be an unreasonable stretch for a Marine unit 
to go against an aircraft or ship. We never got to the point of putting cards/rules 
together, but we did have a lot of fun tossing ideas around. 
I believe it was 1999 when I first discussed the possibility of a Pacific version of 
Atlantic Storm with Ben Knight. Much to my delight, Ben told me that he had 
already begun the design process and already had a set of force and battle cards 
created. I started to tell him of some of the ideas Lou and I had and Ben was very 
excited to hear about what we had come up with. The most important (and in my 
opinion, the coolest) idea of ours that Ben incorporated into the final design you 
are now playing was the “Renewed Battle” card. As we discussed the idea of 
fighting over island groups, it occurred to us that on more than one occasion, the 
Allies came back and re-took what the Japanese had conquered earlier in the war 
(“I shall return.”). Why not introduce that mechanic into the game? Rather than 
fight a new battle, we came up with the idea of taking a battle that had already 
been won, and bringing it back out to fight over again. Wow, what a concept! It 
added uncertainty since you didn’t know when the Renewed Battle cards (at first, 
there were 3 in the 60-card battle deck) were going to come out. It also added 
that favorite element of any multi-player game, a chance to reel in the leader! 
No longer were those big VP cards safe in front of you. This is my favorite part 
of Pacific Typhoon, not just because it was mine and Lou’s idea, but because it 
adds such a great new dimension to the game (unless, of course, you see your 8 
VP battle card get taken away from in front of you, then you absolutely hate this 
new dimension ).
It was right after WBC 2005 that I took on the formal role of developer for Pacific 
Typhoon. Boy, be careful what you ask for. Over the next two years or so I worked 

with the playtesters as well as my local Chicago group to revise and enhance the 
game. One of the key changes we made was to change the day/night battle card 
mix. Originally, all 40 battle cards gave the round leader the choice of day or night. 
However, after becoming familiar with the strengths/weaknesses of each type of 
force card(s), we started to see fewer and fewer day battles since it became clear 
that keeping the powerful carriers out of the battles were advantageous to a round 
leader who plays a strong surface ship. The game started to “feel” less and less like 
the Pacific War since we were not getting any big carrier battles. To correct this, 
we made the change the set certain battles to day-only, others to night-only, and 
a few remained day/night choice. It didn’t take long for the game to “feel” better 
since we started to see a lot more action with carriers and aircraft.
All in all I’m very pleased with the end result; a game that is “true to its roots” as 
compared to Atlantic Storm, but also adds its own flair as a new game. A lot has 
changed since the initial ideas we had eight years ago, but what you’ve got now 
is a game that I hope will be as much fun for you to play as it was for me (and my 
playtesting friends in Chicago and Columbus) to develop.
Credits
Design: Ben Knight
Development: John Coussis
Design Assistance: Mark McLaughlin, Rob Eastman, Roy Gibson, Stephane 
Laulhere, Louie Tokarz, Don Greenwood
Art Director, Cover Art and Package Design: Rodger B. MacGowan 
Cards Art: Mark Simonitch
Rules Layout: Neil Randall
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis 
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger B. MacGowan, Andy Lewis, Gene Billingsley 
and Mark Simonitch
Playtesters: Tim Ardoin, Joe Birch, Jesse Boomer, Scott Buckwalter, Don 
Chappell, Steve Cole, Dan Crenshaw, David Cross, Steve Cuyler, Chris Esko, 
Matt Evinger, Nick Evinger, Ruth Evinger, Tim Evinger, Bruce Fischer, Chuck 
Frascati, Jim Gutt, Eric Haas, Jonathan Hamel, Nathan Heazlett, Dan Henry, Ka-
tie Hirsch, Keith Hunsinger, Jon Izer, Chad Jensen, Steve Katz, Charlie Kibler, 
Christopher Lawrence, Brendan McGuire, Patrick McGuire, Kurt Miller, Bruce 
Monnin, Tim Murray, Scott Nerney, Dan Plojez, Jim Pyle, Mike Rea, Betsy 
Reynolds, Steve Reynolds, Kevin Rohrer, Martin Sample, Greg Schmittgens, 
Rich Shipley, Peter Stein, Bob Suckling, Jamie Tang, Craig Taylor, Robert 
Waters, Paul Weintraub, Doug Whatley, Mark Yoshikawa 
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, 
Hanford, CA 93232–1308
www.GMTGames.com