™

The Pairs Companion
ISBN 978-1-59100-048-8
Hip Pocket Games, Publisher
PO Box 15460 Seattle WA 98115
cheapassjames@gmail.com
Booklet designed by James Ernest
Edited by Carol Monahan
The Name of the Wind, The Wise Man’s Fear (DAW Books), and The Princess 
and Mr. Whiffle (Subterranean Press) are © Patrick Rothfuss. Material from 
these sources is used by permission. 
Girl Genius is © and ™ Studio Foglio, used by permission.
Professor Elemental is © and ™ Paul Alborough, used by permission. 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means without the 
permission of the publishers, except for purposes of review.
© 2014 James Ernest
Printed in the USA
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

Contents
About Pairs
	
Introducing Pairs .............................................. 3
	
Pairs in Fiction ................................................. 4
Section 1: The Basics
	
How to Play ..................................................... 6
	
Simple Variants
	
	
Continuous ......................................... 10
	
	
Pieces of Eight .................................... 11
	
	
Calamities ........................................... 11
	
Port ............................................................... 12
Section 2: Faceup Games
	
Starboard ....................................................... 14
	
Gambling Rules .............................................. 15
	
Rocket ............................................................ 16
	
Blackstone ...................................................... 18
Section 3: Secret Hands
	
Hawthorn ....................................................... 22
	
Goblin Poker ................................................... 24
	
Monster ......................................................... 26
	
Regent ........................................................... 28
	
Troll Guts ....................................................... 30
Section 4: Bidding Games
	
Sweep ........................................................... 32
	
Kitty .............................................................. 33
	
Venture ......................................................... 36
	
Five Cards ..................................................... 39

Introducing Pairs
	
Pairs is a pub game for 2 to 8 players. We call it a “pub game” because 
it’s fast, simple, portable, and easy to bet on. This booklet contains the 
basic rules, as well as many other games and ways to play.
	
Pairs was created in 2013 by veteran game designers James Ernest 
and Paul Peterson. It’s the product of several years of combined experience 
creating casino- and pub-style games. 
	
In the Spring of 2012, Ernest and Peterson created a 2-player game 
called “Quicksilver,” played with a standard poker deck, in which the goal 
was to get the best poker hand, taking cards one at a time.
	
Quicksilver was modified into a custom deck card game, which used a 
Tarot-style deck, and the rules were modified to include “losing” as well as 
“winning,” based on different combinations of cards.
	
In the summer of 2013, James Ernest decided to make a “pub game” 
based on the simple notion that a local pub needed more appropriate 
games on its shelf. 
	
Ernest and Peterson worked up a basic concept where losing was the 
only relevant outcome. The losing condition was simplified to “getting a 
pair,” and they chose a triangular deck (1x1, 2x2, etc.) so that the odds of 
pairing were different for every card.
	
What started as a 2-player game turned out to be great for more 
players. After several months of playtesting, including analysis by casino 
mathematicians and lots of traveling, Pairs was ready for prime time.
	
The design team joined forces with author Pat Rothfuss to give the 
new game a fictional background, and to bring thousands of visitors to 
their 2104 Kickstarter campaign. Pairs launched with style, raising more 
than $300k and unlocking a total of ten extra decks (pictured opposite), 
each with their own unique art style and variant rules.

Pairs in Fiction
 
Pairs has been woven into the world of the Kingkiller Chronicles, 
a series of fantasy novels by Patrick Rothfuss, which includes Th e Name of 
the Wind and Th e Wise Man’s Fear. 
 
Th is world, called Four Corners, already had a great collection of 
games, like Tak, a chess-like strategy game, and Corners, a four-player 
Euchre-like game. Here’s Pat’s explanation of how Pairs fi ts in:
Pairs exists in one form or another throughout 
the civilized world, from Vintas and the Com-
monwealth to the farthest corners of the small 
kingdoms. In his seminal history, Th e Chains 
of Empire, Etregan speculated that the game 
originated in Atur, and was spread by con-
quest, just as Atur brought rule of law, com-
mon language, and a standardized system of 
timekeeping to the lands it subjugated.
Many scholars disagree, citing as evidence 
Modegan decks that appear to predate 
Atur’s expansion by more than 400 years. Others 
point out iconography in Aturan decks that predates the empire and 
seems to originate in pre-plague Caluptena. Th e game’s origin seems 
lost to history, with countless regions having their own decks and 
variations of play.
 
Pairs also makes a cameo appearance in the Girl Genius universe, 
thanks to a collaboration with Studio Foglio on the Muses deck. Th e Girl 
Genius-fl avored variant game is Regent, a sophisticated bluﬃ ng game 
played by the nobles in a historic high court. 
ut
-
hers
ll
s
n-
m-
of 
-
l 
s 

The Basics
Pairs is a simple press-your-luck card game, 
using an unusual “triangular” deck. Th e deck 
contains the numbers 1 through 10, with 1x1, 
2x2, 3x3, and so on. 
In the basic game, Pairs has no winner, just 
one loser. Players score points by catching 
pairs (or by folding) and the fi rst player with 
too many points loses.
If you like, you can choose a penalty for the 
loser. Th e loser could tell a joke, buy a round 
of drinks, make a funny noise, or whatever is 
appropriate for your group.
All of the games in the book can be played 
with any Pairs deck. 

How to Play
	
To Begin: Shuffle the deck and burn (discard) five cards, facedown, 
into the middle of the table. This is the start of the discard pile. Each time 
you reshuffle, you will burn five cards again. This makes it harder for the 
players to count the cards.
	
To start a round, deal one card faceup to each player. The player with 
the lowest card will go first. (Break ties as described on the page 9.)
	
Example: Player A is dealing. She shuffles the deck, puts the cut card 
on the bottom, and burns five cards into the middle. She then deals one 
card to each player, faceup, so the table looks like this:
Who Should Deal? One 
player can deal for the 
whole game, or the role of 
dealer can pass around the 
table. The dealer’s position 
doesn’t really matter, since 
the starting player is always 
determined by the low card.
Using a Cut Card: A cut card is simply an extra blank card. Keep this card 
on the bottom of the deck, where it prevents players from seeing the bottom 
card. When you reach the end of the deck, you can use the cut card to mark 
where play was interrupted. Place it back on the bottom after you shuffle.
A
B
C
D
E

	
On Each Turn: On your turn, you have two choices: You may hit 
(take a card), or fold. If you catch a pair, or fold, the round is over and you 
score points. If not, play passes to the left.
	
Pairing Up: When you hit, you’re hoping not to get a pair (any two cards 
of the same rank). If you pair up, you score that many points. For example, if 
you catch a pair of 8’s, you score 8 points. Keep one of those cards, faceup, to 
track your score. 
	
Folding: You can surrender (fold) instead of taking a card. When you 
do this, you take the lowest card in play and keep it for points. You may 
choose this card from all players’ stacks, not just your own.
	
Folding can be better than hitting, depending on the odds of catching a pair, 
but it’s up to you to decide when to do it. 
	
Ending the Round: As soon as one person catches a pair or folds, the 
round is over. Discard all the cards in play, facedown into the middle, and 
deal another round. 
	
Players keep their scoring cards aside, faceup. These cards will not 
return to the deck until the game is over.
	
Reshuffling: When the deck runs out, reshuffle the discards. Pause 
the game, shuffle, and resume where you left off. Remember to burn 
five cards each time you shuffle.
	
Losing the Game: There is no winner, just one loser. The game ends 
when one player reaches the target score (see the Target Scores chart 
above). For example, in a 4-player game, the loser is the first player to 
score 16 points.
Target Scores
The losing score depends on the number of players:
 	
Players:			 		
6+
 	
Losing Score:	
(The formula: Take 60 points, divide by players, then add 1.)

Examples of Play
	
Take a look at the example game on page 6. The full names of the 
players are Angie, Bob, Carlos, Delia, and Echo (A, B, C, D, and E). Here’s 
an example showing the first few turns of that game. 
	
Delia is First: Because she has the lowest card, a 6, Delia will 
take the first turn. Her choices are to fold for an automatic 6 points, 
or to take a hit, and risk getting 6 points. 
	
Obviously, she takes a hit. (This is usually an obvious choice 
on the first turn, unless you start with multiple cards, due to a 
tie breaker.) Delia’s new card is an 8, so she avoided pairing up. 
Hooray!
	
Echo’s Turn: The turn passes to the left. Echo can hit her 
9, or fold for 6 points. Folding for 6 seems costly, and hitting the 
9 isn’t all that risky. (There are only eight 9’s left in the deck.) So 
Echo takes a hit, and catches a 3. 
	
Angie’s Turn: Angie is next. She could now fold for 3 points, 
since Echo has a 3, but she decides to take a hit. She catches a 9.
	
Bob’s Turn: Bob has a 10. He could fold for 3 points, but he 
decides to take a hit. He gets a 5. 
	
Carlos’ Turn: Carlos is a cautious player. Rather than risk 
pairing his 10, Carlos folds, and takes the 3. Everyone’s cards are 
then discarded, facedown in the center, but Carlos keeps Echo’s 
3 for three points. (If Carlos had taken a hit, rather than folding, 
and if he had paired his 10, he’d get 10 points instead of 3. )
	
Dealing the Next Rounds: Angie keeps dealing until she reaches 
the bottom of the deck, or until someone loses the game.
	
When it’s time to reshuffle, Angie shuffles only the discards (not the 
cards in play, and not the cards that have been kept for score). After shuf-
fling, she burns five cards, then resumes dealing wherever she left off. 
	
The game continues until one player scores 13 points.

Breaking a Tie for Low
	
Many Pairs games, including the basic game, use the same method 
to break ties for starting card. If two or more players are tied for low, deal 
additional cards to the tied players, and use those cards as tie breakers. 
	
If the tiebreakers are tied, deal more cards until one player is clearly 
going first. 
	
If someone gets a pair in this process, discard the paired card and deal 
a replacement. You can’t be knocked out by a pair on the deal, but you can 
sometimes wind up with several extra cards!
	
Example: In the example below, there is a tie for low. A tie breaking 
card is dealt to players B and C. Player B will go first. 
Some Hints for Dealing
	
As dealer, your job is to keep the game moving smoothly. You can help 
by calling out the cards as they are dealt, and making sure that every player 
acts in the right order.
	
As mentioned before, it doesn’t matter if one person deals all the 
time, or if the deal passes around the table. The first player is always deter-
mined by the low card, and that’s fair no matter where the dealer sits.
	
To keep it fair, be sure to deal cards in a consistent order. Start with 
the player on your left each time, and deal clockwise around the table. Deal 
tiebreaking cards in the same order.
 
 First Cards:
 Tie Breaker: 
A
B
C
D
E

Simple Variants
	
In the vein of “dealer’s choice” poker, here are a few simple variations on 
the basic game of Pairs. They include Continuous Pairs, Pieces of Eight, and the 
Calamities variant.
	
These are a great starting point, but we hope you will make up your own 
variations on basic Pairs, and share them with us! 
Continuous Pairs
	
Continuous Pairs is a slightly more strategic version of the core 
game. The game is nearly the same as basic Pairs, except that when a player 
pairs up or folds, only that player’s cards are discarded. Everyone else keeps 
their cards in play, and that player is still in, but with an empty stack.
	
This game is basically one long round, instead of several short ones. 
There are a couple of rules clarifications for Continuous Pairs: 
	
1: When you fold, you may take any card in play. (It doesn’t 
have to be the lowest card.) 
	
2: When you have no cards, you must always hit.
	
Continuous Pairs is included alongside the basic rules in all Pairs 
decks, because we feel it’s a game that everyone should play. The decisions 
about when to fold, and whose cards to take, can get pretty interesting. 
	
As a simple example, suppose your lowest card is a 3, and the lowest 
card among the other players is a 4. All other cards in play are 7 or higher.
	
If you fold by taking your own 3, that leaves the 4 in play. 
	
If you fold by taking the 4, this discards your hand, removing both the 
3 and 4 from play, and leaving your opponents in a trickier spot. Now their 
best choice for folding is 7 points, making them more likely to hit instead.

Pieces of Eight
 
Th is simple variant was introduced in the 
Pirate Deck by Brett Bean. It can be played with 
basic Pairs or Continuous Pairs, and probably in 
other games as well. We’re especially curious if it 
works in Port!
8’s are special. If you have an 8, instead 
of taking a hit, you can discard the 8 and take 
two cards. 
 
Note: If the fi rst card makes a pair, knock-
ing you out, you don’t deal the second. Th is is only 
relevant in Continuous Pairs. 
Calamities
Th e Commonwealth deck depicts seven Calamities on the 7’s (Fire, 
Death, Strife, etc.). Th at makes that deck ideal for the Calamities variant, 
though you could play it with any deck.
 
In this Pairs variant, the Calamities attract attention. Th ey have two 
rules that keep the focus on whoever gets them: 
 
1: 7’s are lower than 1’s when determining who goes fi rst.
 
2: If you receive a 7, the turn stays on you. (In Continuous, 
this is true even when the 7 gives you a pair, so you will discard 
your cards and immediately receive another card.)
 
It’s rumored that the Calamities cards are actually based on the seven 
Chandrian, a group of legendary evil beings. But you’d never catch anyone in 
the Four Corners talking about it! 

Port
	
Port was introduced in the Pirate deck, illustrated by Brett Bean. Port is 
similar to Pairs, but with the added option to lock your hand. 
	
Players: 2 to 7
	
Equipment: A Pairs deck and a way to keep score.
	
Port is played in rounds, keeping score after each round. Points are 
good; the first player to score 21 points wins.
	
To Begin: Shuffle the deck and burn five cards. (You can deal several 
rounds from the same deck, as in Pairs.)
	
Each Round: Deal each player one card faceup. The low card will go 
first, with ties broken as in Pairs. 
	
Each Turn: On your turn, you may either take a hit, or lock your 
stack. If you lock, you will receive no more cards in this round. If you hit, 
you are trying to get more points without getting a pair. A pair busts you, 
and you get no points at all.
	
The round continues until everyone has locked or busted.
	
Scoring: The player who has the most total card points in her stack 
(adding all the cards together) scores N game points, where N is the num-
ber of players. (For example, 4 points in a 4-player game.) 
	
The next highest total scores N-1 game points, and so on, down to 1 
game point for the lowest valued stack (if no one busted). 
	
Players who busted get no points. If there is a tie for any level, both 
players receive the higher amount.
	
For example, in a 5-player game, the stacks are 23, 22, 22, 17, and bust. 
These players earn 5, 4, 4, 2, and 0 game points.
	
After the round is over, discard all the cards and deal again, and keep 
playing until a player scores 21 points or more. If there is a tie (people tied 
with more than 21 points), those players play one more round.

Faceup Games
Pairs is unusual among card games in that 
players have no secret information. 
We call a collection of faceup cards a “stack,” 
to distinguish it from a “hand” of facedown 
cards. Games with hidden cards are found in 
the following two sections. 
This section contains several variants on the 
faceup Pairs game. It just so happens that all 
of them can be played for money.
You don’t have to play for real money to make 
these games fun. Instead, just keep score with 
chips, and see who has collected the most at 
the end of the night.

Starboard
 
Starboard is similar to Port, but players are wagering on a common 
hand. It was introduced in the Pirate deck, with art by Brett Bean.
Players: 2 to 7
You Need: A Pairs deck, chips or coins for gambling, and a 
“button” or special coin to designate the fi rst player.
 
To Begin: Each player antes 1 coin into the pot. Th e player with the 
button acts fi rst. If this is the fi rst game, give the button to a random 
player; otherwise, it passes one seat to the left after each game. 
 
Deal two cards into the middle of the table. Th is is the start of one 
hand of cards that everyone will play. If the fi rst two cards are a pair, dis-
card one of them and replace it. 
Each Turn: In turn, starting with the button, players may either 
draw or lock.
 
Draw: To draw, pay 1 coin into the pot. Deal a card to the 
hand, faceup. If this pairs the stack, you bust (lose), but the game 
continues. Discard the paired card, and drop out.
Lock: Declare that you are locked. When a player locks, any 
players who locked with fewer cards are knocked out. To win the 
pot, you must lock with the highest number of cards.
Ending the Game: Th e game ends when every player 
busts or locks. (If you are the only player left, you lock.) Th e pot 
is split among all players who locked with the highest number 
of cards. (Unlike in Port, the card points are irrelevant.)
Odd Coins: If the pot does not divide evenly, leave any 
odd coins for the next pot. 

Gambling Rules:
These basic gambling variants can be used with Basic 
or Continuous Pairs.
Seattle Rules: This is the simplest. At the end of 
the game, the loser pays one coin to every player. 
Tacoma Rules: In Tacoma, the loser pays a predetermined amount (for 
example, 6 coins) to the player with the lowest score. Tied players split the 
prize. If there are odd coins, leave them in the pot for the next game.
	
Note: We suggest 6 coins for this penalty because the award is often 
split between several players, and 6 is divisible by 2 and 3. You’d have an 
even easier time splitting pots if you played for 12. Or maybe 60! 
Olympia Rules: In Olympia, the loser pays the player(s) with the lowest 
score, as in Tacoma, but the penalty is equal to the difference in those players’ 
scores. This makes each point more interesting. (Note: This sounds like more 
money than the last two variants, but you can just play for smaller stakes!)
Portland Rules: Portland works like Olympia, but in Portland the loser 
pays every player the difference between their scores. This keeps all scores 
interesting until the very end!
Starboard Dealing Hints: To track which players are in what state, keep 
each player’s ante in front of that player, to designate that player as “in.”
	
When a player busts, move their ante into the pot. When a player locks, 
deal them a card facedown, placed under their ante. When a locked player is 
knocked out (because someone drew without pairing), take away their face-
down card, and put their ante in the pot.

Rocket
	
Rocket is a casino version of Pairs, in which each player makes a separate 
bet in a head-to-head game against the dealer. In a home game, the role of dealer 
passes to the left after each round. 
	
Rocket was introduced in the Barmaids deck, with art by Echo Chernik.
	
Players: 2 to 7 (including one dealer)
	
You Need: A Pairs deck, and chips or coins for gambling. 
	
Flow of Play: Rocket is structured as a casino table game, like black-
jack. All players are playing against the dealer (not each other), and the 
dealer plays by fixed rules. 
	
In a home game, players should take turns being the dealer. There is 
a slight advantage for the dealer, so the game is only fair when the deal 
passes around the table. 
	
The Deck: You can play Rocket with a single Pairs deck, or up to 8 
Pairs decks shuffled together. The deck should be reshuffled when approxi-
mately 20% remains.
	
The Bet: To begin, each player must place a bet. Different players 
can bet different amounts. A bet must be divisible by 10 units, because all 
payouts will be based on 1/10 of the bet. The dealer agrees to cover bets of 
any size, up to a maximum bet agreed upon by all players.
	
The Starting Deal: Deal one card faceup to each player, and then to 
the dealer. Play begins on the dealer’s left. 	
Using a Button: Casinos may wish to start each hand with the low card, 
rather than on the dealer’s left. In this case, use a button to designate the 
starting position, and break ties by choosing the player closest to the left of 
the previous button (rather than by dealing an extra card). 
	
Under these rules, the dealer still acts last.

Player’s Turn: Each player is playing against 
the dealer only. In turn, players may either fold or 
hit. All players act before the dealer.
 
Folding: When you fold (similar to surrender 
in blackjack), you are paying to get out of the game. 
Pay the dealer a fraction of your bet, which is 1/10 
of the total bet multiplied by the lowest card in ei-
ther your stack or the dealer’s. 
 
For example, if your bet is 20 coins, and the 
lowest card between you and the dealer is a 4, you 
can fold by paying 2 x 4 = 8 coins. 
 
You retrieve the remainder of your bet.
Hitting: When you hit, you are staying in, and trying not to get a 
pair. Take one card, faceup. If you don’t pair up, you are safe. If you get a 
pair, you lose, and must pay that number, multiplied by 1/10 of your bet. 
For example, if you have bet 20 coins and get a pair of 8’s, you pay 2 x 8 = 
16 coins.
 
Dealer’s Turn: Th e dealer always acts last, and plays by a diff erent 
set of rules:
Dealer Must Hit: Th e dealer always hits (she cannot fold).
Dealer Pair: When the dealer catches a pair, she pays all surviving 
players that amount, multiplied by 1/10 of their bet.
For example, if the dealer catches 7-7, and your bet was 50, the dealer pays 
you 5 x 7 = 35 coins. (You also keep your bet.)
 
Death Card: A 3 is sudden death for the dealer. Th e dealer loses im-
mediately if she gets a 3, even on her fi rst card. Th is pays all bets at 3/10 
(as if the dealer caught a pair of 3’s). Note: A 3 is not lethal to players, only 
the dealer. 
Continuing: If the dealer doesn’t pair up or catch a 3, play resumes 
with the fi rst player. Th e game continues until all players either catch a 
pair or fold, or until the dealer pairs up or catches a 3.

Blackstone
 
Blackstone is a tough-as-nails gambling game, 
which was introduced in the Modegan deck, with art 
by Shane Tyree. It’s rumored to predate basic Pairs in 
the world of the Kingkiller Chronicles. In fact, it’s just 
a super-strange way to play Pairs. 
Blackstone is an aggressive contest, like a game 
of “chicken” played with money. 
Players: 2 to 8
You Need: A Pairs deck, and chips or coins for gambling.
 
Summary: 10’s are the “black stones,” and everything else is “white 
stones.” Players are trying not to draw a pair of black stones. Each round is a 
self-contained, separate game. Your goal is to fi nish with more money than 
you started with.
 
Setup: Each player antes 5 coins. Leave each player’s ante in front of 
them, not in the pot, so the dealer can easily see who is still in the game. 
When a player is knocked out, her ante goes into the pot.
To Begin: Shuffl e the deck and deal one card to each player. Th e low-
est card will go fi rst. As in basic Pairs, if there is a tie for low card, deal more 
cards to those players until the tie is broken.
 
If anyone catches more than one 10 in this process (which is rare), you 
must return the extra 10’s to the deck and reshuffl e after you determine 
who is going fi rst. Since other pairs don’t matter, all other pairs you deal 
are simply ignored. 
 
After determining who goes fi rst, bring all white stones (all cards that 
are not 10’s) into the center of the table, arranging them so that they can 
be easily counted. It helps to stack them in two rows, using bunches of fi ve, 
as shown in the diagram on the next page. 

 
Players keep only their black stones. 
Collecting two black stones will knock a 
player out, and ends the game.
 
Turns: On your turn, you may either 
take cards or fold. 
Taking Cards: If you take cards, 
you must take at least as many cards as 
the previous player. (Th e fi rst player must 
take at least one card, but may take more 
if he wishes.)
 
If a player collects two 10’s, that 
player loses, and the game is over. Th at 
player pays 1 coin to the pot for every 
white stone that has been dealt, and the 
surviving players split the pot.
 
Folding: If you fold, you drop out of the game. Pay an amount equal 
to half the white stones in play, rounding up, into the pot. Your ante also goes 
into the pot. For example, if you fold when there are 15 white stones in the 
center, your penalty is your ante, plus another 8 coins (which is half of 15, 
rounding up). 
 
Folding does not end the game, unless there is only one player left, in 
which case the remaining player takes the pot.
 
Ending the Game: Th e game ends when someone gets a pair of 10’s. 
After she pays her penalty, the pot is split evenly among all the surviving 
players, and any odd coins remain in the pot for the next game. 
Sorting the white stones: Since the fold cost is half the 
white stones (rounding up), keep them in two rows so 
that half is easy to fi gure. Here they are being grouped 
into piles of 5 cards. Th e fold cost here is 8 coins.
Dealing Procedure: Th e 
dealer confi rms how many 
cards are called for, then 
counts that many cards 
facedown off the deck. 
From this stack, he then 
reveals cards until the 
player catches two black 
stones, and then dealing 
stops. Th is ends the game, 
and any remaining cards 
are not revealed. 

	
In the world of Girl Genius, the Muses are famous and powerful 
clanks (a bit like robots). They were created as advisors and companions to 
royalty, many centuries ago. 
	
The Muses deck, according to Phil and Kaja Foglio, features modern 
interpretations of what these historic clanks might have looked like.
	
The Muses deck includes the rules for Regent, in both a traditional 
2-player form, and a modern version that can accommodate up to 6 players. 
Both are sophisticated bluffing games that are played for money, though it is 
considered improper to refer to them as “gambling.” Aficionados prefer to use 
the term “tracking score.”
About the Muses

Secret Hands
This section contains several Pairs variants 
that use facedown cards.
Secret information makes these games highly 
strategic, and leads to great opportunities for 
deception and bluffing.
As in the previous section, all of these games 
can be played for money. Of course, you don’t 
have to play for real money, but it still helps if 
you use chips to keep score.

Hawthorn
	
Hawthorn is a game like Pairs, but using a hand of cards. Players alter-
nate taking cards from their own hands, and the deck. It feels a bit like poker, 
even though there is no betting.
	
Hawthorn was introduced in the Faen Deck, with art by Nate Taylor.
Players: 2 to 6
You Need: A Pairs deck, chips or coins for gambling, and a 
“button” or special coin to designate the first player.
	
To Begin: Everyone antes one coin into the pot. Shuffle the deck and 
deal a hand of five cards to each player, facedown. 
	
The First Card: Each player chooses a starting card, and these cards 
are revealed simultaneously. After that, play starts with the low card, and 
proceeds clockwise around the table.
	
If there is a tie for low card, break the tie by dealing more cards from 
the deck, discarding and replacing any paired cards, as in Pairs. 

	
Give the first player the button. Every round will begin with this play-
er, or to this player’s left, if she drops out. This is important because the 
rules of play change on alternate rounds, and it’s easier to remember that 
the round type changes each time the play reaches the button.
	
There are two kinds of rounds, called deck and hand rounds. The first 
round will be a deck round.
	
Deck Rounds: In a deck round, play proceeds roughly as it does in 
Pairs. Players may opt to hit (take one card from the deck), or fold. 
	
If you fold, rather than scoring points, you must pay coins into the 
pot. The price of folding is the value of the lowest card in play. (Turn your 
cards facedown to show that you are out.)
	
If you hit, you are hoping not to get a pair. If you do, you are out, and 
you pay a penalty equal to the value of the pair. For example, if you are 
knocked out by a pair of 8’s, you pay 8 coins into the pot, and you are out.
	
Hand Rounds: Once the action returns to the first player, the rules 
change. In a hand round, you will play a card from your hand, rather than 
taking one from the deck. The rules are the same for folding and pairing, 
so of course you will play an unpaired card if you can, and you will fold if 
you can’t.
	
Play continues, alternating between Deck and Hand rounds, until 
only one player remains. That player wins the pot. 
	
Strategy: The rank of your starting card will determine whether you 
go first, and it will also affect your odds of pairing up on the first round. If 
you’d rather not catch a pair, play low. If you’d rather not go first, play high.
	
Each time you play a card from your hand, you can reduce the price 
of folding (for yourself and everyone else) by playing a lower card than is 
currently in play. 
	
And note that the price of folding can go up, since cards leave play 
when their owners go out. 
	
You’ll need to play Hawthorn a few times to see how it works. There is 
some strategy and tension, and even some good opportunities for bluffing. 

Goblin Poker
Goblin Poker is similar to Hawthorn, but the rules for distributing cards 
are considerably more chaotic. Goblin Poker was introduced in the Goblin Deck, 
illustrated by Pete Venters. 
 
Goblin Poker is a crazy screw-your-neighbor gambling game. In terms of 
rules, it actually has very little in common with poker. 
Players: 3 to 8
You Need: A Pairs deck and coins or chips for gambling. 
 
Setup: To start the game, each player antes one coin. Th is is the be-
ginning of the pot. Shuffl e and deal a hand of six cards to each player.
 
Th e First Card: Each player chooses one card from his hand in se-
cret. Th ese cards are revealed together. Th is card becomes the start of your 
faceup stack. Th e lowest card will go fi rst.
 
If there is a tie for low card, the tie is broken with cards from the deck, 
exactly as in basic Pairs. 
 
Each Round: Players now take turns pitching or folding, starting with 
the lowest stack (defi ned below) and going clockwise.
Defi ning “Lowest Stack”: Th e identity of 
“lowest stack” can change frequently, each time 
cards enter and leave play. It’s always the stack 
with the single lowest card, with ties broken by 
the second lowest card, and so on. 
 
An extra card is lower than no card at all, 
so 2-3-6 is lower than 2-3. If there is a perfect 
tie, even mid-game, you must break it with more 
cards from the deck. As in Pairs, discard and re-
place tie-breaker cards that form a pair.

Each Turn: On your turn, you may either 
fold, by paying coins into the pot, or you may 
pitch one card. After everyone has done this, 
the pitched cards are shuffl ed and distributed 
to the players, described below.
Folding: Pay a number of coins into 
the pot equal to the value of the smallest 
card in play. Turn all your cards facedown, 
and you are out of the game.
Pitching: Choose one card from your 
hand and discard it into the middle of the 
table, facedown.
 
After each player has acted, there will always be a number of pitched 
cards equal to the number of players who are still in. 
 
Shuffl e the pitched cards and deal them to the remaining players, 
starting with the lowest stack and proceeding to the left.
 
As you deal these cards, if any player catches a pair, she is out of the 
game. She also pays pay a penalty into the pot. Th e cost is equal to the 
value of the paired card. For example, if you catch a pair of 8’s, you pay 8 
coins to the pot.
 
Note that players are eliminated in sequence, so if only one player re-
mains alive, that player wins, even if he was about to catch a pair. 
Moving Forward: If only one player remains in the game, that play-
er wins, and takes the pot.
 
If more than two players are still alive, play another round. Th ere can 
be as many as fi ve rounds, since you start with six cards. 
 
If multiple players survive the fi nal round, those players split the pot, 
leaving any odd coins for the next game.

Monster 
 
Monster is a Pairs game based on the 
best dealer’s choice poker game of all time, 
Frankenstein. Monster doesn’t work exactly 
the same, since this isn’t poker. But it’s got a bit 
of the same fl avor. 
 
Monster was introduced in the Shallow 
Ones deck, illustrated by John Kovalic.
Players: 4 to 8 
You Need: A Pairs deck and coins or chips for gambling.
 
Summary: Monster is a self-contained gambling game, like poker, 
although a single game can take several rounds. Th e deal passes to the left 
after each game (when the pot clears). Th is means that the same player can 
act fi rst for many rounds. Th is is balanced out over multiple games. 
 
To Begin: Start by paying an ante into the pot. If you have 4 or 5 
players, the ante is 2 coins. With 6 or more, the ante is 1 coin. (Th e ante is 
paid only on the fi rst round of every game). 
 
Shuffl e the deck and deal a hand of six cards to each player. Th e player 
on the dealer’s left will act fi rst.
On Each Turn: Each player acts once, in turn. On your turn, you may 
discard zero to three cards, or fold. You are not allowed to keep a hand that 
includes a pair. You may want to fold some other hands as well, depending 
on circumstances.
 
Your discards go facedown into a pile in the middle, which becomes 
the Monster’s hand. Folded cards do not go to the Monster; they are com-
pletely out of play. 
 
Th e Showdown: After each player has acted, there is a showdown for 
best hand. Th en, the high hand must compete against the Monster. 

 
When a player faces the Monster, he must beat it to take the pot. 
Otherwise, the player loses, pays 5 coins, and is out of the game. (Th e 
Monster beats the player in a perfect tie.)
 
Moving Forward: If no one beats the Monster, shuffl e and play an-
other round with the surviving players. Players who fold, or who lose to 
the Monster, are out. Th e game ends when someone beats the Monster, or 
when only one player is left. 
 
Ties: Two players who beat the Monster with exactly the same hand 
will split the pot. Two players who are exactly tied, but lose to the Monster, 
must each drop out and pay the 5 coin penalty, 
unless they are the only two players remaining, 
in which case they pay 5 coins but play another 
round.
Strategy: In the fi rst few rounds, you may 
want to “duck,” playing low hands and trying not
to fi ght the Monster. As players leave the game, 
it becomes easier to fi ght for the pot. You’ll have 
to experiment with diff erent strategies as your 
group learns the fl ow of the game. 
Defi nition of High Hand: Any player hand that contains a Pair is a los-
ing hand, and can’t be kept for the showdown. 
 
All hands in the showdown will be compared by highest card, then 
second highest card, and so on. Th e best player hand is 10-9-8-7-6-5. A 
card is better than nothing, so a hand with 10-8-7-4 is better than just 
10-8-7. 
 
Th is is similar to comparing poker hands for high card, except that 
there is no limit on the number of cards that can play, and it doesn’t 
matter if your cards are in sequence. 
 
Th e Monster uses the same rules, but it ignores pairs. Treat the 
Monster as if it had only one card of each rank.
r 
y

Regent 
 
Regent is a classic bluffi ng game from the Girl 
Genius universe, designed for two players. Th ere is a 
“modern” version for 3 to 6 players, described below. 
 
Regent was introduced in the Muses deck, with 
art by Phil Foglio and Cheyenne Wright.
Players: 2
You Need: A Pairs deck, and coins or chips 
for tracking score. 
 
Setting Up: Shuffl e the deck and burn fi ve cards, as in Pairs. You can 
deal to the bottom of the deck, to minimize shuffl ing, and then recycle the 
discards, exactly as in Pairs. 
 
Each Round: To begin each round, deal each player a hand of three 
cards: two facedown, and one faceup. 
 
Th e player with the lowest upcard will go fi rst. Break ties by dealing 
more cards from the deck, exactly as in Pairs.
 
Each Turn: On your turn, you have the following fi ve choices: You 
may draw, attack, gift, fold, or see.
Draw: Take a card from the deck into your hand, facedown.
Attack: Deal a card from the deck into your opponent’s stack, faceup. 
You don’t want to create a pair with this move. 
 
If you deal your opponent a faceup pair, you lose the round, and pay 
them a number of coins equal to the value of the pair. For example, you 
lose 8 coins for dealing a pair of 8’s.
Gift: Play a card from your facedown hand into your opponent’s 
stack, faceup. You can’t give your opponent a faceup pair, so you may only 
play cards that do not match your opponent’s upcards.

	
Fold: Withdraw, and pay your opponent the value of the lowest face-
up card. This ends the round.
	
See: Reveal your opponent’s facedown cards. If they have a pair, in-
cluding both up and down cards, you win, and collect the value of the pair. 
(If they have multiple pairs, they pay for just the highest pair.) If they do 
not have a pair, you lose, and pay them the value of their highest card. 
	
Note: You can’t see a player who has no facedown cards, since this would 
be an automatic loss.
	
Ending the Round: The round ends when someone catches a pair, 
or folds, or when one player sees the other. Whatever the reason, pay the 
penalty as described above, and then play another round. 
	
Strategy: You need to clear your hand of pairs, and to catch your oppo-
nent with a pair before they catch you. Once players understand the basic flow 
of the game, bluffing becomes a big factor. This will become apparent after you 
play a few rounds.
Regent for 3-6 Players
	
Basics: The basic options are the same as two-player Regent. How-
ever, the turn does not always pass to the left. 
	
If you draw or fold, the turn passes to the left. If you attack, gift, or 
see someone, the turn passes to that player. (If they are knocked out, it 
moves to the left from there.) 
	
Losers are knocked out, their cards are removed from play, and the 
game continues until only one player remains.
	
If you attack someone and they catch a pair, that paired card is dis-
carded, and you are out. Pay that player the value of the pair. If you see your 
target and catch them with a pair, they pay you, and they drop out. If they 
do not have a pair, their cards remain faceup. You pay them, and drop out.
	
If you fold, put your penalty into the center. This will go to the last 
surviving player.

Troll Guts
 
With a similar name, it should be no surprise that 
Troll Guts is in the same family as Goblin Poker. One 
big diff erence: you can’t fold, so you’ll have to die by catch-
ing a pair. Troll Guts was introduced in the Troll Deck, 
with graphics by James Ernest.
Players: 3 to 6
You Need: A Pairs deck, and coins or chips for gambling. 
 
Setup: Each player antes one coin. Shuffl e the deck and deal a hand 
of 5 cards to each player. Deal one more card faceup in front of each player. 
Th e low card will go fi rst. Break ties as you would in Pairs.
 
Players must now stack their downcards in the order they want them 
to be revealed. Once you arrange your cards, you can’t rearrange them 
(though you can still look).
Each Turn: Starting with the low card and proceeding to the left, 
players may either Draw, Steal, or Buy. Each action gets you a single faceup 
card. 
Draw: Take a card from the deck (faceup).
Steal: Take the top card of anyone’s facedown stack (faceup).
Buy: Pay a coin into the pot, and take the top card of your own 
facedown stack (faceup).
 
If your new card gives you a pair, you lose. Pay the value of the pair 
into the pot. For example, if you catch a pair of 4’s, you pay 4 coins. When 
you are knocked out, turn all your cards facedown. 
 
Winning: Th e pot goes to the survivor. Th ere is no folding, so you’re 
always going to win the pot, or die with a pair.

Bidding Games
In a departure from most other Pairs vari-
ants, the Bidding Games collection doesn’t 
have anything to do with avoiding pairs. 
Instead, players bid with cards in their hands, 
to pick up or score other cards. 
Many of these games share a common ances-
tor, a card game written by James Ernest and 
Dave Howell called Lamarckian Poker, 
which is itself descended from a traditional 
card game called Casino.

Sweep
 
Sweep is a bidding game for 3 to 6 players. 
Each round, players will play cards from their hand 
to capture other cards from the center of the table. At 
the end of the game, the player who collects the most 
cards in each rank will score points for that rank.
Sweep was introduced in the Commonwealth
Deck, illustrated by Shane Tyree.
Players: 3 to 6
You Need: A Pairs deck, and a way to keep score.
 
Setup: Shuffl e and deal a hand of fi ve cards to each player.
Each Round: Deal fi ve cards into the center of the table, face-up. Th e 
round proceeds in two halves, play and capture. 
 
On the fi rst round, start with a random player. On subsequent 
rounds, start with the player who took the last card on the previous round.
Play: In turn, each player plays one card from their hand, faceup onto 
the table. All cards are played before the next step. 
Capture: In ascending order, these cards will capture cards from the 
middle. Cards that you capture go into your hand.
 
First, the lowest card takes all cards of the highest rank. For example, if 
the lowest card is a 4, and the highest cards in the center are two 9’s, then 
that player picks up the 9’s. 
 
Next, in ascending order, the remaining cards will capture all cards 
lower than themselves.
 
After each card captures, it falls into the center, where it can be cap-
tured by higher cards. 
 
Ties: If two or more cards of the same rank are played, those players 
take turns capturing single cards, starting with the player who played fi rst.

	
These players will divide their targets roughly evenly, but players who 
go last will often get fewer cards, or even nothing at all. So be cautious 
when playing a card that matches someone else’s card!
	
After all captures are resolved, discard the cards that are left in the 
middle. Deal five new cards from the deck into the middle, and play an-
other round. Repeat this until the deck is exhausted, and then score.
	
Scoring: For each rank of cards, the player who has collected the 
most cards of that rank scores that many points. (Points are good.) For 
example, you score 5 points if you have collected the most 5’s. If players 
are tied for most cards, they each score the full value for that rank. Hint: 
Set aside one card of each rank as you score it, to help track your total.
	
Option: You can keep score over a longer game. If you do, the winner 
is the first player to reach 150 points.
Kitty
	
Kitty is a bidding game originally designed for 
four players. The basic goal of Kitty is to score points 
by winning bids and collecting sets of cards. There 
are several ways to play Kitty, but we’ll start with 
the four-player version. 
	
Kitty was introduced in the Princess and Mr. 
Whiffle Deck, illustrated by Nate Taylor. 
Players: 4
You Need: A Pairs deck.
	
To Begin: Shuffle the deck and deal a “kitty” of 7 cards, facedown in 
the middle of the table. Deal out the remainder of the deck to all players.
	
On Each Round: The game will play in seven rounds, one for each 

card in the kitty. To start each round, turn over the top card of the kitty. 
This card is the “target.”
	
Pass: First, each player chooses one card from his hand and passes it 
to the left. 
	
Play: Next, each player plays a bid card, facedown. When all four bid 
cards are played, reveal them. 
	
Capture: The player who played the lowest bid will take the target, 
adding it to his hand. Exception: If the lowest bids are tied, they are ig-
nored, and the next lowest card wins the target. 
	
If there are no unpaired cards, no one takes the target.
	
Exception: The 1 works differently. Although it is guaranteed to win the 
target, when you take a card with the 1, you must give the target to another 
player. 
	
After the capture, all four bid cards are discarded (removed from 
play). If all bids are tied, the target is also discarded.
	
You will play seven rounds, and then score the game.
	
Scoring: The player with the most cards in each rank scores the value 
of that rank. For example, whoever has the most 8’s scores 8 points. If there 
is a tie for most cards, both players score the full amount. The highest score 
wins. 
	
Long-Form Scoring: Kitty can be played as single hands, or you can 
keep score over several games. If the latter, play to 100 points.

Variations on Kitty
	
Depending on which variant rules you choose, you can play Kitty with any 
number of players from 3 to 6. For example, changing to “soft” lets you play with 
more people without running too low on cards.
	
Soft: The 7-round game described in the basic rules is the “hard” ver-
sion. To play “soft,” each target after the first consists of two cards, rather 
than one, so there are only four rounds total (1-2-2-2).
	
In the soft game, the lowest card in each round chooses one target 
card, and the second lowest card takes the remaining target card. Ties are 
still ignored, and unclaimed cards are still discarded.
	
Number of Players: Kitty (hard or soft) can be played by as few as 3 
players, or as many as 6. The kitty is always 7 cards. In the 5-player game, 
another 3 cards must be removed from play unseen (this makes the start-
ing hands come out even). 
	
In the 5- and 6-player game, it’s better to play by the “soft” rules, play-
ing only 4 rounds instead of 7.
	
Partners: Four or six players can play Kitty in teams of two. You’re 
not allowed to communicate with your partner about the cards in your 
hand, but you can infer what your partner has (or needs) by how she plays. 
	
In Partners, if you take a card with the 1, you must give it to another 
team (you can still decide which player). At the end, teammates’ hands are 
combined for scoring.
	
Gambling: To play Kitty for wagers, choose a coin value (such as a 
penny) for each point. When scoring, the winner collects from each player 
the difference between their scores. 
	
For example, if the winner has 19 points, he would get 4 coins from a 
player with 15 points, and 6 from a player with 13. 

Venture
	
Venture is a bidding game for 3-8 players. Taking cards is usually bad, 
so the object is to take as few cards as you can, sometimes by conspiring with 
other players. But trust no one! Players don’t have to tell the truth about what 
cards they play. Venture was introduced in the Professor Elemental Deck, 
illustrated by Cheyenne Wright. 
Players: 3 to 8
You Need: A Pairs deck, and a way to keep score.
	
Summary: Players will play several rounds, playing cards to capture 
other cards. Each card you capture is one negative point (regardless of its 
rank), unless you capture a full set (all the cards in one rank). Full sets are 
worth positive points.
	
To Begin: Shuffle the deck and deal a stack of cards facedown in the 
center of the table. This stack is the “slug.” The number of cards in the slug 
depends on the number of players.
	
	 3p: 4 Cards	
4p: 3 Cards	
5p: 5 Cards 
	
	 6p: 7 Cards	
7p: 6 Cards	
8p: 7 Cards
	
Next, deal the remainder of the deck out to all players. After remov-
ing the slug, the cards should divide evenly.
	
Turn the slug faceup in the center. This will be the pool of cards for the 
first round.
	
On Each Round: Each player chooses one card from his hand, and 
plays it facedown as a bid. Players are welcome to talk about what bids 
they are playing, in an effort to confuse or conspire with each other. (Don’t 
overlook this rule; table talk can make or break this game.) When all players 
are ready, reveal these cards, and execute them in order from low to high.

	
Capturing: Bid cards will “fire,” starting with the lowest card and 
going up. When cards fire, they capture other cards on the table, including 
other bid cards. If multiple bids of the same rank are played, those cards 
“misfire” and can’t capture anything. (This is generally good, since captur-
ing cards is bad.)
	
In general, cards “capture down,” meaning that they pick up smaller 
cards. So, for example, a 7 will take all cards lower than 7. However, the 
lowest card is different. It fires first, and captures all cards of the highest 
rank on the table. (Remember that this includes the pool and the bid cards.)
	
Set aside the cards you capture, faceup. Uncaptured cards will remain 
on the table as the pool for the next round. 
	
Play until your hands are empty. Then it’s time to score.
	
	
Scoring: Each card you capture is worth one negative point. However, 
if you collect a full set (that is, all the cards of the same rank) those cards 
are worth 1 point each. Also, the cards that remain in the center can be 
scored by anyone, so if you collect eight 9’s and the last 9 is left in the mid-
dle, you score 9 points. The player with the highest score wins.

An Example Venture Game
 
In this 5-player game, the slug is 4, 5, 6, 8, 10.
 
On the fi rst round, the bids are 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. Th e 2 fi res fi rst, and 
captures the 10. Moving up the ranks, the 3 is next and captures the 2. Th e 
4 captures the 3, and the 5 captures both 4’s. Th e 6 catches both 5’s. Th is 
leaves a pool of 6, 6, 8.
 
On the second round, the bids are 5, 5, 7, 9, and 9. Th e 5’s would 
normally target the 9, but they misfi re because they are matched. Next, 
the 7 fi res, and captures all the 5’s and 6’s. Finally, the 9’s are matched, and 
capture nothing. Th is leaves a pool of 7, 8, 9, 9.
Example Scoring: A player has captured a total of 11 cards, includ-
ing all of the 5’s. Th e six non-matched cards total 6 negative points, and 
the fi ve 5’s are worth a total of +5, for a fi nal score of -1 point. (Scores are 
often negative.)
Keeping Score: It’s best to keep score for a fi xed number of rounds. 
Since scores can go negative, you don’t want to play to a fi xed point total, 
or you might never get there. 
Optional Rule: Drafting
 
After the deal, but before the slug is re-
vealed, players can tailor their hands using a 
simple drafting system. 
 
From your starting hand, keep three 
cards, and pass the rest to the left. Set aside 
the cards you keep, and repeat this until there 
are no cards left to pass.
 
Drafting works only if you have a feel for 
the strategy. It lets you tailor your hand and 
get a glimpse of what others have.

Five Cards
 
Five Cards is a simple 2-player game that was 
introduced in the super-secret Troll deck. 
Players: 2
You Need: A Pairs deck and a way to keep 
score. 
 
Setup: Shuffl e the deck and deal fi ve unmatched cards into the mid-
dle. (Discard any matching cards.) Sort the fi ve cards from lowest to high-
est, as shown in the center line above. Th ese are the “target” cards. If you 
had to discard any cards on the deal, reshuffl e the deck.
 
Choose a random player to go fi rst. On subsequent rounds, the player 
who scored the fewest points in the previous round will go fi rst.
Each Turn: Draw a card from the deck, and play it faceup on your 
side of one of the line. 
 
You can’t play a card if it matches any card in the column, including 
the target card and the opposing player’s cards. 
 
Play proceeds in this fashion until someone draws an unplayable 
card. Th is ends the round, and it’s time to take score.
 
Above is an example of a game in progress. In this example, the player 
on top is currently winning the 3, 5, 6, and 9, and the player on the bottom 
is winning the 7. Th is game would end if another 7 were drawn; that card is 
unplayable because each column already contains a 7.
Scoring: Whoever played the most points on their side of each target 
card scores the point value of that card. If the players are tied in a column, 
they divide the point value of the target, rounding down. 
 
Record your score and play again. Th e winner is the fi rst player to 
score 100 points.

Credits
Art by Brett Bean, Cheyenne Wright, Echo Chernik, James 
Ernest, John Kovalic, Nate Taylor, Pete Venters, Phil Foglio, 
and Shane Tyree. 
Pairs was designed by James Ernest and Paul Peterson, with 
help from Joshua Howard and Joe Kisenwether. Venture was 
designed by James Ernest and Daniel Solis. Regent was 
designed by James Ernest and Rick Fish.
Playtesters include Adam Sheridan, Ahna Blake, Alec Nelson, 
Ashley Humphries, Ben Reinhardt, Bob De Dea, Boyan Rada-
kovich, Carol Monahan, Cathy Saxton, Daniel Solis, Debbie 
Mischo, Don Flinspach, Hal Mangold, Jed Humphries, Jeremy 
Holcomb, John Mischo, Jonathan Fingold, Kenneth Hite, Mike 
Selinker, Nathan Clarenburg, Nora Miller, Owen Jungemann, 
Rick Fish, Ruth Boyack, Shawn Carnes, Terry Murray, Tom 
Gurganus, Tom Saxton, and many others. 
Rules edited by Carol Monahan, Cathy Saxton, Christopher 
Dare, and Mike Selinker. 
Made possible through Kickstarter!
Pairs and the Pairs logo are © and ™ 2014 James Ernest and 
Hip Pocket Games, Seattle WA: www.hippocketgames.com.

For rules, variants, alternate decks, and more, 
please visit: www.playpairs.com

What is Pairs?
________________________
Pairs is a “new classic 
pub game,” invented by 
James Ernest and Paul 
Peterson.
This guide contains the 
basic rules and history 
of the game.
It also contains 
many other games 
and variations on 
the basic rules.
Hip Pocket Games
Seattle, Washington
www.playpairs.com