game design - shem phillips & s j macdonald 
illustration - mihajlo dimitrievski 
graphic design & layouts - shem phillips 
 
copyright 2019 garphill games 
www.garphill.com

introduction
Paladins of the West Kingdom is set at a turbulent time of West Francia’s story, circa 900 AD. Despite recent 
efforts to develop the city, outlying townships are still under threat from outsiders. Saracens scout the borders, 
while Vikings plunder wealth and livestock. Even the Byzantines from the east have shown their darker side. As 
noble men and women, players must gather workers from the city to defend against enemies, build fortifications 
and spread faith throughout the land. Fortunately you are not alone. In his great wisdom, the King has sent his 
finest knights to help aid in our efforts. So ready the horses and sharpen the swords. The Paladins are approaching.
The aim of Paladins of the West Kingdom is to be the player with the most victory points (VP) at game’s end. 
Points are gained by building Outposts and Fortifications, Commissioning Monks and confronting Outsiders. 
Each Round, players will enlist the help of a specific Paladin and gather Workers to carry out tasks. As the game 
progresses, players will slowly increase their Faith, Strength and Influence. Not only will these affect their final 
score, but also determine the significance of their actions. The game is concluded at the end of the seventh Round.
aim of the game
12 Attribute Markers 
(4 of Each Colour)
22 Labourers
32 Workshops
18 Fighters
28 Outposts
18 Scouts
28 Monks
18 Clerics
28 Jars 
(4 of Each Number)
18 Merchants
18 Criminals

50 Silver
40 Provisions
1 Start Player 
Marker
1 Resource Marker 
(For Solo Play)
48 Paladin Cards
32 Townsfolk Cards
17 Scheme Cards 
(For Solo Play)
36 Outsider Cards
24 Suspicion Cards
24 Debt Cards
24 Tavern Cards
24 Wall Cards
10 King’s Favour 
Cards (Green Seal) 
6 King’s Order 
Cards (Red Seal)

4 Player Boards 
The reverse side of each Player Board contains an AI Player Board
2 Parts of the Main Board

setup
Follow these steps to set up Paladins of the West Kingdom:
1. Place the 2 Parts of the Main Board together to form the large central play area.
2. Shuffle the Townsfolk Cards 
into a facedown Draw Pile 
on the left side of the Main 
Board. From the top of 
this pile, draw and reveal 5 
Townsfolk Cards, placing 
them faceup above the top 
left area of the Main Board.
7. Shuffle the Outsider Cards into a 
facedown Draw Pile on the right 
side of the Main Board. From the 
top of this pile, draw and reveal 
6 Outsider Cards, placing them 
faceup below the bottom right 
area of the Main Board.
9. Shuffle the Tavern 
Cards into a 
facedown Draw 
Pile below the 
bottom left of the 
Main Board.
3. Shuffle the Wall 
Cards into a 
facedown Draw 
Pile above the 
central area of 
the Main Board.
8. Shuffle the King’s Order Cards and 
randomly place 3 of them facedown on the 
left end of the Main Board. Also shuffle 
the King’s Favour Cards and randomly 
place 5 of them facedown in the spaces 
to the right of the King’s Order Cards. 
Return all unused King’s Order Cards and 
King’s Favour Cards to the box unseen.
4. Depending 
on the player 
count, place 5-8 
Silver above the 
Main Board, as 
shown by the 
icons there. This 
is known as the 
“Tax supply”.
5. Place the Debt Cards into 
a Draw Pile, “Unpaid” side 
faceup, above the top right 
area of the Main Board.
6. Shuffle the Suspicion Cards 
into a facedown Draw Pile 
to the right of the Debt Card 
Draw Pile.

setup
10. Place all remaining Silver, Provisions and Workers (Labourers, Scouts, Merchants, Fighters, Clerics and 
Criminals) into a supply near the Main Board, within reach of all players. 
11. Give each player 1 Player Board and the following components:
8 Workshops
7 Jars
(Ascending in value from left to right)
3 Attribute Markers
(1 of each colour stacked
on the zero space)
12 Paladin Cards
Each Player Board has a matching set of Paladin 
Cards. Note the background images on the cards. 
Aside from the background images, each set of 
Paladin Cards is identical.
3 Silver and 1 Provision 
from the supply
7 Monks
7 Outposts

12. Players should each shuffle their Paladin Cards into a facedown Draw Pile alongside their Player Board.
13. Randomly determine a starting player and give them the Start Player Marker.
14. In reverse turn order (starting with the player to the right of the Start Player 
Marker and moving counter-clockwise around the table), each player must select 
1 Townsfolk to Recruit into their crew, from those visible above the Main Board. 
Recruited Townfolk should be kept faceup alongside Player Boards. Note that this 
does not cost players anything. Once all players have recruited, slide all remaining 
Townsfolk Cards to the right, filling empty spaces. Then reveal new Townsfolk 
Cards from the top of the Townsfolk Draw Pile to fill all remaining empty spaces. 
 
Note: When recruiting Townsfolk (during setup and during the game), some have 
immediate rewards . These are pictured on the left side of some Townsfolk Cards. 
 
For example, if a player Recruited the Architect seen here, they would immediately 
gain 1 Provision.
Paladins of the West Kingdom is played over a series of 7 Rounds. 
 
Each Round, players will select a Paladin to assist them, along with 6 new Workers. In turn order, moving 
clockwise around the table, players will each take a single action on their turn. This continues, each player taking 1 
action at a time, until all players have passed. 
 
Once all players have passed, there is a quick reset of the Main Board to bring out new Townsfolk and Outsiders 
before proceeding into the next Round.
Gameplay overview

round structure
Each of the 7 Rounds in Paladins of the West Kingdom follow the same structure:
1. Pass the Start Player Marker to the next player in clockwise order (ignore this step in the first Round).
2. Reveal any King’s Order Cards and King’s Favour Cards for the current Round. Notice the Round number 
printed in the green shield above each card space. In the first 2 Rounds, 1 King’s Order Card will be revealed. In 
the third Round, both a King’s Order Card and a King’s Favour Card will be revealed. In Rounds 4 to 7, just a 
single King’s Favour Card will be revealed. 
 
For example, in the first Round, the first King’s Order Card has been revealed, with icons depicting 5 Walls.
King’s Orders
These offer bonus scoring opportunities to all players. Notice the scoring flags printed below the 3 King’s Order 
Card spaces. The first King’s Order will score players an additional 4 VP if they meet its condition (5 Walls in 
the above example). The second will score 6 VP and the third, 8 VP. These bonus Victory Points are awarded to 
all players who achieved the conditions by the game’s end. 
 
King’s Favours
These open up new action spaces for players to use each Round. Each King’s Favour may only be used once per 
Round (they cannot be cleared using the Pray action - explained later).

3. From the Draw Pile, reveal a number of Tavern Cards faceup, equal to players, plus 1. 
 
For example, in a 4 player game, 5 Tavern Cards would be revealed:
4. From their Paladin Draw Pile, each player must draw the top 3 Paladin Cards to their hand and do the following:
•	 Choose 1 Paladin to use for the current Round, placing it facedown onto the card space on the left side of 
their Player Board.
•	 Place 1 Paladin facedown on top of their Paladin Draw Pile (they will see this card in the next Round).
•	 Place the last Paladin facedown at the bottom of their Paladin Draw Pile.
2 Workers gained 
this Round
Temporary Attribute 
boosts for this Round
Special ability
for this Round
Paladin Name
Selecting which Paladin to use (and which ones to 
place at the top and bottom of the Draw Pile) is a 
crucial decision to make at the beginning of each 
Round. 
 
Each Paladin will immediately reward 2 new 
Workers for the current Round. They will also 
give temporary Attribute boosts in 1 or more areas. 
Lastly, they also come with a special ability for the 
current Round. 
 
For example, Engelier comes with 1 Fighter (red) 
and 1 Scout (green). He boosts Strength by 3 and 
Faith by 1. He also earns 2 Silver each time he 
attacks an Outsider this Round.

round structure
5. Starting with the first player for this Round and moving clockwise around the table, each player reveals their 
Paladin and collects the 2 Workers printed on the card from the supply. After doing so, they also select 1 of the 
available Tavern Cards and collect the 4 Workers printed on it. 
 
Tip: After selecting a Tavern Card, players should rotate it 90 degrees, or flip it to indicate to other players that 
it is no longer available. Note that there will always be 1 unclaimed Tavern Card each Round. 
 
Workers collected from Paladin Cards and Tavern Cards should be placed below Player Boards. Once all players 
have revealed their Paladin for the Round and collected its Workers, plus 4 Workers from an available Tavern 
Card, play continues. 
6. Starting with the first player for this Round and moving clockwise around the table, each player must decide 
to either take an action or pass. This continues until all players have passed. How each action works will be 
described in detail on the following pages. 
7. Once all players have passed (see Page 24), the Main Board needs to be refreshed. Follow these steps: 
•	 If there is still a Townsfolk Card in the right-most space, discard it, then slide all remaining Townsfolk 
Cards (if any) to the right, filling empty spaces. Then reveal new Townsfolk Cards from the top of the 
Townsfolk Draw Pile to fill all remaining empty spaces. If the Townsfolk Draw Pile runs out, do not shuffle 
the discards. They are intended to be a limited supply. 
•	 If there is still an Outsider Card in the left-most space, discard it, then slide all remaining Outsider Cards 
(if any) to the left, filling empty spaces. Then reveal new Outsider Cards from the top of the Outsider Draw 
Pile to fill all remaining empty spaces. If the Outsider Draw Pile runs out, do not shuffle the discards. They 
are intended to be a limited supply. 
•	 Remove all Tavern Cards from this round, placing them into a faceup discard pile to the left of the Tavern 
Card Draw Pile. Should the Draw Pile ever run out, simply shuffle the discards to form a new Draw Pile. 
•	 Return all Workers placed on King’s Favour Cards back to the supply (from Round 3, onwards).

For example, the Round has just finished with the Main Board in the current state:
Following the steps outlined on the previous page, the 
right-most Townsfolk Card (Debt Collector) must be 
discarded. After doing so, slide the other 2 Townsfolk 
Cards (Squire and Defender) to the far right, so that the 
Defender now sits where the Debt Collector was. Now 
turn over 3 new Townsfolk Cards from the Draw Pile to 
fill the 3 empty spaces to the left of the Squire.
There is no Outsider Card in the left-most space, so no 
Outsiders are discarded. Slide the remaining 4 Outsider 
Cards to the far left and turn over 2 new Outsider Cards 
from the Draw Pile to fill the empty spaces to the right 
of the Mercenary. 
 
Lastly, collect up all 5 Tavern Cards and place them 
into a discard pile to the left of the Tavern Draw Pile.

introduction to taking actions
As explained on the previous pages, once all players have revealed their Paladin for the Round and collected their 
Workers, players will start taking actions. In turn order, moving clockwise around the table, players will each take 
a single action on their turn. This continues, each player taking 1 action at a time, until all players have passed. 
 
Players take actions by placing 1 or more Workers from their personal supplies onto either their own Player 
Boards, or onto any of the revealed King’s Favour Cards on the Main Board. The actions on the left side of Player 
Boards are focused on engine building and resource gathering. The actions on the right side of Player Boards are 
focused on scoring and increasing Attributes. 
 
All the actions on the right side of Player Boards require a particular Attribute 
and also reward a different Attribute. Understanding how these work is very 
important when teaching the game to new players. The required Attribute is 
indicated on the left side of each action’s banner, while the rewarded Attribute 
is indicated on its right side. 
 
For example, Fortify requires Influence (blue) and rewards Strength (red).
How each specific action functions will be explained in detail on the 
following pages. For now, it is worthwhile noting this for future reference.
Each action also requires a certain number of Workers and often specific types (colours) of Workers.
 
There are a few rules around placing workers onto coloured and transparent spaces:
•	 Any Workers may be placed onto transparent spaces (regardless of their colour).
•	 Workers of the correct colour must be placed onto coloured spaces.
•	 Criminals (purple) act as wilds and may be placed onto both transparent and coloured action spaces.
For example, Fortify requires 1 Merchant (blue), 1 Worker of any type and 1 Scout (green). 
Important Rule: Players can only ever do 7 of each Commission, Fortify, Garrison, Absolve and 
Convert actions. However, there is no restriction to how many times they may Attack.

This action requires exactly 2 Workers of any type and costs 4 
Silver. After placing 2 Workers and paying 4 Silver to the supply, 
players must then move the left-most Workshop from their Player 
Board to 1 of the actions spaces on the right side of their Player 
Board. 
 
Notice the white dotted boxes around the 2 left Worker spaces of 
each action space. This is where players can place their Workshops 
when taking the Develop action. Placing Workshops onto action 
spaces will allow players to use less Workers when taking the 
associated action in the future. Each of the 6 actions spaces on right 
side of Player Boards can have at most, 2 Workshops. 
 
In addition to this, players will also immediately gain the Worker 
indicated from the space where the Workshop was taken.
For example, this player decided to place 1 Labourer 
(white) and 1 Fighter (red) onto their Develop action 
space. They paid 4 Silver to the supply and decided to 
Develop the left Worker space of Commission. From 
now on, Commissioning Monks will only require 2 
Workers to activate. They also immediately gain the 
pictured Worker (1 Scout) from the supply which 
they revealed when moving the Workshop.
Note: Players are allowed to place a Workshop onto a 
space where a Worker already rests (placed previously 
that Round). When doing this, simply return the Worker 
to the supply before placing the Workshop.
Develop

This action requires either 1 or 2 Workers and may require Silver to be paid. Any costs are printed below where 
each Townsfolk Card sits at the top left of the Main Board. Alternatively, the 2 left-most Townsfolk Cards may be 
Recruited by taking a Debt, rather than paying the Silver cost. When taking a Debt, players should take it from the 
Debt Draw Pile and place it alongside their Player Board, “Unpaid” side faceup. 
 
Important rule: If players place a single Worker on 1 turn, they cannot place the second Worker on a future turn. 
They must decide to place either 1 or both Workers as a single action.
When using only 1 Worker, it can be any type, but must be placed on the left Worker space. Placing 1 
Worker allows players to discard a Townsfolk Card from above the left side of the Main Board. Think of 
this as sending them off on a quest. When taking this action, players are only concerned with the top right 
icons on each Townsfolk Card. This shows an immediate reward they will gain for taking this action. 
For example, the Abbot shown below, would cost 2 Silver and immediately reward 1 Cleric and 1 Labourer. 
 
Placing 2 Workers (1 of which must be a Fighter) allows players to Recruit a Townsfolk Card into their 
crew. When taking this action, players are only concerned with the bottom icons on each Townsfolk Card. 
These show an ongoing ability they will gain for the rest of the game, and potentially some immediate 
rewards. All Townsfolk Recruited this way should be kept faceup alongside Player Boards. 
 
For example, the Gatekeeper shown below would cost 3 Silver or 1 Debt and immediately reward 1 Silver. Once 
recruited, she would earn her player 1 additional Silver each time they Fortify for the rest of the game.
Recruit

This action requires 1 Cleric (Black) and costs 2 Silver. After placing a 
Cleric and paying 2 Silver to the supply, players may immediately remove 
all Workers from 1 action space on their Player Board and return them to 
the supply. The purpose of this action is to clear another action space of 
Workers so that players can use it again in the same Round.
For example, this player decided to place 1 Criminal (remembering that 
they are considered wilds) and paid 2 Silver to Pray. They chose to use this 
action to remove all the Workers from their Absolve action space, returning 
them to the supply.
This action requires any 1 Worker and immediately gains players 1 Criminal (purple). 
Any time players gain a Criminal, they must also gain 1 Suspicion. 
How Suspicion works will be explained in detail on Page 22.
Pray
Conspire
These actions both require either 1 or 2 Workers. When placing 1 Worker, it 
must be in the left worker space and can be any Worker Type. This allows 
players to gain 1 resource of the pictured type from the supply (Provisions 
for Hunt and Silver for Trade). When placing 2 Workers, the right Worker 
must match the required type (Scout for Hunt and Merchant of Trade). This 
will allow players to gain a total of 3 resources of the pictured type from the 
supply.
Important rule: If players place a single Worker on 1 turn, they cannot place the second Worker on a future turn. 
They must decide to place either 1 or both Workers as a single action.
Hunt and Trade

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Scout, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Cleric) and increasing amounts of Provisions. 
The Provision cost is shown above each Monk on Player Boards. The first 3 Monks require 1 Provision to 
Commission. The next 2 require 2 Provisions and the last 2 require 3 Provisions. Players must always Commission 
their left-most available Monk. They cannot place them in any chosen order. 
 
When taking this action, players are using their Faith Attribute to place their Monks onto the Main Board. Each 
players’ Faith determines where they may Commission Monks. This restriction is indicated by the Faith flags 
shown along the bottom right of the Main Board. From left to right, each region (the areas directly above where 
Outsider Cards are placed) require increasing amounts of Faith (the first region requires no Faith, the second 
region requires 2 or more Faith, the third requires 4 or more Faith, etc). In order to Commission a Monk to a 
chosen region, there must also be an available space to place it (not already containing a Monk or Outpost). These 
are the square spaces on the Main Board with various immediate rewards pictured inside them. Also note that 
some spaces are only available at higher player-counts. 
 
For example, the player below decided to Commission a Monk. As they have previously Developed their 
Commission action, they only require 2 Workers. They placed 2 Workers and paid 1 Provision to the supply. As 
they have a total of 3 Faith (2 from their Attribute Track and 1 from their Paladin), they decided to Commission 
their Monk to a space in the second region of the Main Board, immediately earning 1 Scout (Green) from the 
supply. Since they revealed an Influence flag under their Commissioned Monk, they also gained 1 Influence, 
moving their Influence Marker up the Attribute Track immediately.
Commission

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Merchant, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Scout) and increasing amounts of 
Provisions. The Provision cost is shown below the card spaces along the top of Player Boards. The first 3 Walls 
require 1 Provision. The next 2 require 2 Provisions and the last 2 require 3 Provisions. Players must always place 
Walls by filling the left-most empty card space first. They cannot place them in any chosen order. 
 
When taking this action, players are focused on using their Influence Attribute. This restriction is indicated across 
the top of Player Boards (the first Wall requires no Influence, the second requires 1 or more Influence, the third 
requires 3 or more, etc). When Fortifying the city with Walls, players draw the top Wall Card from the Draw 
Pile and place it faceup along the top of their Player Board. Each Wall Card will show a collection of immediate 
rewards. Note that this will always include at least 1 increase to their Strength Attribute.
For example, the player above decided to build their fourth Wall. From the example on the previous page, we 
know they now have 5 Influence (after gaining 1 more from their Commission action and including 3 from their 
Paladin). They placed the 3 required Workers onto their Fortify action space, but due to their Paladin (Anséis), 
this action did not cost them any Provisions. They drew the top Wall Card from the Draw Pile and placed it in the 
left-most empty space along the top of their Player Board. This Wall Card immediately gained them 1 Strength, 
moving their Strength Marker up the Attribute Track and also 2 Workers from the supply (1 Labourer and 1 
Fighter). Their next Fortify action will now require 7 Influence and 2 Provisions.
Fortify

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Merchant, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Fighter) and increasing amounts of 
Provisions. The Provision cost is shown above each Outpost on Player Boards. The first 3 Outposts require 1 
Provision to Garrison. The next 2 require 2 Provisions and the last 2 require 3 Provisions. Players must always 
Garrison their left-most available Outpost. They cannot place them in any chosen order. 
 
When taking this action, players are using their Strength Attribute to place Outposts onto the Main Board. Each 
players’ Strength determines where they may Garrison Outposts. This restriction is indicated by the Strength flags 
shown along the bottom right of the Main Board. From left to right, each region (the areas directly above where 
Outsider Cards are placed) require increasing amounts of Strength (the first region requires 1 or more Strength, 
the second region requires 3 or more Strength, the third requires 5 or more Strength, etc). In order to Garrison an 
Outpost to a chosen region, there must also be an available space to place it (not already containing a Monk or 
Outpost). These are the square spaces on the Main Board with various immediate rewards pictured inside them. 
Also note that some spaces are only available at higher player-counts. 
 
For example, the player below decided to Garrison an Outpost. They placed 3 Workers and paid 1 Provision to the 
supply. As they have 5 Strength, they decided to Garrison their Outpost to a space in the third region of the Main 
Board, immediately gaining a Pray action (clearing all the Workers from 1 action space on their Player Board). 
Since they revealed a Faith flag under their Outpost, they also gained 1 Faith, moving their Faith Marker up the 
Attribute Track immediately.
Garrison

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Cleric, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Merchant) and increasing amounts of Silver. 
The Silver cost is shown above the Jars along the bottom of Player Boards. The first Jar requires 1 Silver. The next 
3 require 2 Silver and the last 3 require 3 Silver. Players must always Absolve using the left-most (lowest valued) 
Jar first. They cannot use them in any chosen order. 
 
When taking this action, players are focused on using their Influence Attribute. This restriction is indicated by the 
printed numbers on the Jars along the bottom of Player Boards. When Absolving, players move their left-most Jar 
to an available space (not already containing a Jar) on the bottom right of their Player Board. Each of these spaces 
show an immediate reward for players to gain. In addition to this reward, each Absolve also increases players’ 
Faith by 1 (moving their Faith Marker up their Attribute Track) and allows players to immediately remove 1 
Suspicion Card from above their Player Board. 
 
For example, the player below decided to Absolve. They placed 3 Workers and paid 1 Silver to the supply. They 
do not require any Influence for their first Absolve. They decided to move their first Jar onto 1 of the available 
“Pay a Debt” spaces, immediately allowing them to flip an unpaid Debt Card. They also remove 1 Suspicion Card 
from above their Player Board. Since they revealed a Faith flag under their Jar, they also gain 1 Faith, moving their 
Faith Marker up the Attribute Track immediately.
Absolve

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Scout, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Fighter). It may also require Silver, but not as 
a mandatory cost. This will be explained below. 
 
When taking this action, players are using their Strength Attribute to Attack Outsiders. Which Outsiders they can 
Attack is restricted by the Strength flags shown along the bottom right of the Main Board (directly above each 
specific Outsider Card). In order to Attack an Outsider, players must have an equal or greater amount of Strength. 
However, for every 2 Strength they lack, players may spend 1 Silver to the supply to make an Attack (in other 
words, 1 Silver for each card they want to skip past where their current Strength would allow them to Attack). 
Think of this like they are hiring local warriors to help in the fight. When Attacking an Outsider, players are only 
concerned with the top right icons on each Outsider Card. These show immediate rewards they will gain for taking 
this action. Note that this will always include at least 1 increase to their Influence Attribute. After Attacking an 
Outsider and gaining its rewards, players should keep it facedown alongside their Player Board. 
 
For example, the player below has decided to Attack the Mercenary under the “7 Strength” card space. As their 
current Strength is only 5, they pay 1 Silver to the supply for the 2 Strength they are lacking. They immediately 
gain 1 Influence, moving their Influence Marker up the Attribute Track. They also gain 2 Labourers from the 
supply and place the Mercenary Card facedown alongside their Player Board.
Attack

This action requires 3 Workers (1 Fighter, 1 Worker of any type and 1 Cleric) and increasing amounts of Silver. 
The Silver cost is shown above the card spaces along the bottom of Player Boards. The first Convert requires no 
Silver, the second Convert requires 1 Silver, the next 3 require 2 Silver and the last 2 require 3 Silver. Players 
must always place Converts below their Player Boards, filling empty spaces from left to right. 
 
When taking this action, players are using their Faith Attribute to Convert Outsiders. Which Outsider they can 
Convert is restricted by the Faith flags shown along the bottom right of the Main Board (directly above each 
specific Outsider Card). In order to Convert an Outsider, players must have an equal or greater amount of Faith. 
When Converting an Outsider, players are only concerned with the bottom icons on each Outsider Card. These 
show an end-game scoring bonus, as well as an immediate reward of 1 or more Strength. After Converting an 
Outsider and gaining their rewards, players should keep the Outsider Card faceup along the bottom of their Player 
Board (remembering to pay the Silver cost for taking this action). 
 
For example, the player below decided to Convert the Assassin under the “2 Faith” card space. This was possible 
as they had 4 Faith (3 from their Attribute Track and 1 from their Paladin). To Convert the Assassin, they paid 
2 Silver to the supply, due to the cost of the next empty card space below their Player Board. Converting the 
Assassin immediately gained them 2 Strength, moving their Strength Marker up the Attribute Track. At the end of 
the game, the Assassin will score them 1 VP for each Saracen they have Attacked.
Convert

tax and suspicion
Any time players add a Criminal to their supply, they immediately gain 1 Suspicion Card. This should be drawn 
from the top of the Suspicion Draw Pile and placed faceup above the top right of their Player Board, for all players 
to see. When players reveal Suspicion Cards they should immediately take the printed amount of Silver (0, 1 or 2) 
from the Tax supply (above the middle of the Main Board). 
 
Should the Suspicion Draw Pile ever run out, shuffle the discards to form a new Draw Pile. In the rare case that 
there are no cards available in the Draw Pile or Discard Pile when players need to draw Suspicion, an Inquisition 
immediately occurs. Once it has been resolved, there will be more Suspicion Cards available for players to draw 
from. 
 
In the case where a player needs to take more Silver than there is available in the Tax supply, they should take 
the rest from the main Silver supply. Taking the last Silver from the Tax Supply will immediately result in an 
Inquisition. For this reason, when gaining more than 1 Suspicion at the same time, players should resolve each 
Suspicion Card separately.
Any time players gain Tax (red coin symbol), they must take the required amount of Silver from the Tax supply. 
Taking Tax is a mandatory action, so be careful. There are times where players may take an action that results in 
Tax being removed at a time that won’t be beneficial for them.
For example, this player just collected 2 Criminals. The first 
Suspicion Card they drew has 2 Tax printed on the Card. As 
there is only 1 Silver left in the Tax supply, they added it to 
their own Supply and took the second Silver from the main 
supply.
Now that the Tax supply has been emptied, an Inquisition 
takes place. After this has been resolved, they must draw a 
second Suspicion Card for their second Criminal.
Suspicion
Tax

“Unpaid”
“Paid”
There are a number of ways that players can gain, pay and destroy Debts. 
 
Gained Debts are placed “Unpaid” side faceup in front of players. If left 
unpaid, Debts will lose players 3 VP at the game’s end. 
 
Paid Debts should be flipped from “Unpaid” to “Paid” and kept in front of 
players. These earn players 1 VP at the game’s end. 
 
Destroyed Debts are returned immediately to the Debt Draw Pile.
Debts
Any time the last Silver coin is taken from the Tax supply, an Inquisition occurs. At this point, the player, or 
players with the most Suspicion immediately gain 1 Debt. If no players have Suspicion, no Debts are collected. 
Each player that gains a Debt from an Inquisition also returns half their Suspicion (rounded down) to the Suspicion 
Discard Pile above the top right of the Main Board. When discarding Suspicion, players should always return their 
most recently acquired Suspicion Cards first (from the top of their Suspicion pile). 
 
There are a number of Townsfolk abilities that can trigger during an Inquisition. For example, the Conspirator 
allows players to discard 1 Suspicion Card before checking to see who has the most. Players may resolve their 
Townsfolk abilities in any order. However, they must all be resolved before any Debts are collected. 
 
Once Debts (if any) have been collected and Suspicion discarded, the Tax supply must 
be refilled with Silver from the main supply. Players are reminded of how much Silver 
must be added by the icons below the Tax supply. 
 
For example, an Inquisition was just triggered. The first player had 1 Suspicion and the second had none. The last 
2 players both had 3 Suspicion. Each of the last 2 players immediately gain 1 Debt and discard 1 Suspicion. 
8 Silver should then be added back into the Tax supply, from the main Silver supply.
The Inquisition
debts and the inquisition

passing
Once a player has no more Workers available to take an action, or when they decide not to take any further actions, 
they must pass. At this point, they must clear all the Workers from their Player Board and return them to the main 
supply. If they have any remaining in their supply, players may carry up to 3 Workers into the next Round. If they 
have more than 3 Workers, they must return any excess to the main supply. 
 
When a player passes, they can no longer take any actions in the current Round. However, they can still be 
affected by Inquisitions (potentially gaining Debts and losing Suspicion). Also, some Townsfolk abilities can still 
be triggered, even though a player has passed (Peddlers, Conspirators, Squires, etc). 
 
Once all players have passed, follow the refresh steps outlined on Page 10 (step 7). 
If this was the seventh Round, the game is over and scoring takes place.
The game ends immediately at the end of Round 7. At this point, players should add up their score for the 
following areas:
Completed King’s Orders	
	
	
 Commissions (if 5 or more completed)
Attribute Tracks	
	
	
	
 Fortifies (if 5 or more completed, plus VPs on specific Walls)
Develops (if 6 or more completed)	
	
 Garrisons (if 5 or more completed)
Debts (paid and unpaid)	
	
	
 Absolves (if 5 or more completed)
Silver / Provisions (1 VP for every set of 3)	
 Converts
The player with the highest total score is declared the winner. In the case of a tie, the tied player who scored the 
most Victory Points from the King’s Orders is the winner. If still tied, the tied player with the least Suspicion is the 
winner. If still tied, all tied players share the victory.
end-game and scoring

For example, this player would score a total of 66 Victory Points for the following:
4 VP for completing the first King’s Order (5 or more Walls). 8 VP for completing the third 
King’s Order (5 or more Commissions). 16 VP for their Strength, 13 VP for their Influence and 
6 VP for their Faith. 5 VP for Commissioning 6 Monks. 3 VP for building 6 Walls, plus 3 VP 
as printed on their first 2 Walls. 3 VP for their Converted Adventurer, 1 VP for each Converted 
Warrior and 3 VP for their Converted Assassin. 2 VP for their paid Debts and -3 VP for their 
unpaid Debt. Lastly, 1 VP for 1 set of 3 remaining resources.
scoring example

solo play rules: setup
The setup for you remains the same. To set up the AI player, follow these steps: 
1. Choose 1 of the Player Boards and flip it over to the AI Player Board side. 
2. As with the regular Player Board, place the 7 Monks, Outposts and Absolves onto the AI Player Board. 
3. Stack the AI’s Attribute Markers on the zero space, with Influence on the Bottom, Faith in the middle and 
Strength on top. 
4. Place the Resource Marker on the left-most space of the Resource Track, on the left side of the AI Player Board. 
5. First set aside the 5 “King’s Favour” Scheme Cards, then shuffle the remaining Scheme Cards and place them 
facedown on the right card space of the AI Player Board.
Setup

6. Decide on what difficulty you wish to play. Based on the table below, shuffle all 6 King’s Order Cards and 
reveal the indicated number. For each card revealed, place 1 of the AI’s Workshops onto the specified action 
space of the AI Player Board. 
 
Easy = 1 King’s Order Card		
Standard = 3 King’s Order Cards	
 Hard = 5 King’s Order Cards. 
 
For example, let’s assume you decided to try the Standard difficulty and revealed 3 King’s Order Cards 
(Commission, Attack and Absolve). You would place 1 AI Workshop onto each of these action spaces of the AI 
Player Board. 
 
After doing this, reshuffle the King’s Order Cards and place 3 facedown on the Main Board as per the normal 
setup rules. 
7. After placing both the King’s Order and 
King’s Favour Cards onto the Main Board, 
place 1 AI Workshop on top of each King’s 
Order Cards and 1 “King’s Favour” Scheme 
Card faceup on top of each of the King’s 
Favour Cards on the Main Board.
8. The Start Player Marker is not required as 
you will always act first.
On Rounds 1-3, add the AI Player’s Workshop from on top of the King’s Order Card onto the action space 
matching the revealed King’s Order. This will help the AI Player focus on completing the King’s Orders. On 
Rounds 3-7, simply add 1 “King’s Favour” Scheme Card to the Scheme Discard Pile. 
 
When revealing Tavern Cards, only reveal 2. You choose 1 as normal. The AI Player does not gain Workers from 
Tavern Cards, but immediately gains 1 Suspicion per Criminal on the unchosen Tavern Card. 
 
Round Setup and Tavern Cards

solo play rules: overview
The AI does not collect Provisions, Silver or Tax. Instead, any time they would gain 
resources, move the Resource Marker on the AI Player Board 1 space to the right 
along the Resource Track. If they were gaining Silver from the Tax 
supply, return the required number of Silver to the main supply (as 
well as moving the Resource Marker). When moving the Resource 
Marker from the right-most space, return it to the left-most space and 
continue counting from there. Each time this happens, increase the 
AI’s lowest Attribute Marker by 1. If tied, move the top-most Attribute 
Marker from that space (for this reason, it is important to keep 
Attribute Markers stacked as they move up the Attribute Track, rather 
than placing them side-by-side). 
 
Not only does the Resource Track slowly boost Attributes from gathering resources, but it also acts as a deciding 
factor when interacting with certain card types. The layout of the Resource Track reflects the physical layout of 
Townsfolk Cards (5 green cards), King’s Favour Cards (5 green seals) and Outsider Cards (6 red cards). When 
required to interact with 1 of these cards, the AI will always attempt to first interact with the card where the 
Resource Marker sits. If the targeted card is not available, the AI will attempt to target the next card to the right 
(following Resource Track). If they are trying to target the right-most card, they will move back to the left-most 
card. Note that with Outsiders, if failing to target the fifth card from the left, they will first try to target the sixth 
card from the left before moving on to the left-most card. 
 
For example, the Resource Marker is currently on the middle space. This means the AI will be trying to target the 
third card from the left. If the third card was not available, it would move onto the fourth card, then the fifth, and 
so on. 
 
Any time the AI Player is required to remove a Suspicion or Debt Card and does not have 1 to 
remove, it will instead return 1 Tax from the Tax supply to the Main supply. However, this does 
not move the Resource Marker along the Resource Track. 
Important rule: The AI Player ignores all Provisions and Silver costs. 
For example, if it was to use a King’s Favour Card that costed 1 Silver, it would take the action 
without paying the Silver cost.
Resource Track

The AI Player treats all Worker types (colours) as the same. However, any time they gain a Criminal (purple), they 
still gain a suspicion. Also, they do not gain Workers from Paladin Cards or Tavern Cards. Instead, they always 
start each Round with a specific number of Workers (Workers = Current Round, plus 3). 
 
For example, in Round 4 it would start the Round with exactly 7 Workers (1 per Round number, plus 3).
Workers
These are how the AI Player takes actions. You will always take the first action each Round. Once you have taken 
your action, turn over the top card from the Scheme Card Draw Pile and place it faceup in the space to the left. 
This will indicate which action the AI Player will attempt to make. If the AI Player does not have enough Workers 
available to take the action, or if that action is already blocked from a previous turn, it will instead attempt to take 
the left-most available action, from those available across the top left of the AI Player Board (Recruit, Pray, Trade, 
Conspire, Rest). Once the AI Player has completed an action, you will take your next action, followed by the AI 
player, then back to you, and so on. 
 
As in the regular game, you will continue taking actions until you decide to pass. The AI will continue taking 
actions until they have no Workers left in their supply, or until they take the Rest action on their AI Player Board. 
 
For example, the next AI Scheme Card revealed was “Commission”. As the AI already has 1 
Workshop on their Commission action space, this only requires 2 Workers. The AI places 2 
Workers and completes the Commission action. However, if they only had 1 Worker available 
in their supply, they would have instead attempted to take the left-most action across the top 
left of their AI Player Board.
Note: Details on each specific 
AI action will be outlined 
on the following pages.
Scheme Cards

solo play rules: ai actions
When taking this action, the AI Player will always attempt to discard the specified Townsfolk Card, based on the 
next card as described on Page 28. Just like when human players discard Townsfolk Cards, the AI Player will gain 
1 or more immediate rewards.
Recruit
When taking this action, clear all Workers off the right side of the AI Player 
Board (note that this does not include any Workers placed on the left side). If 
there are no Workers on the right side of the AI Player Board, they instead gain 
1 Worker from the supply. In either case, all Scheme Cards (Draw Pile and 
Discards) must be shuffled together to form a new Scheme Card Draw Pile.
When taking this action, the AI Player gains 1 Suspicion Card and 2 new Workers from the supply. For each Tax 
icon on the revealed Suspicion Card, return that much Silver from the Tax supply to the main supply and advance 
the Resource Marker 1 space along the Resource Track.
When taking this action, advance the Resource Marker 1 space along the Resource Track, plus 1 
additional space for each Worker still in their supply. This also causes the AI Player to pass for the 
remainder of the Round.
When taking this action, the AI Player simply moves the Resource Marker 1 space along the Resource Track.
Pray
Conspire
Rest
Trade

When taking either of these actions, the AI Player will always attempt to place their left-most token (Monk for 
Commission, Outpost for Garrison) onto the Main Board. They also immediately gain the indicated Attribute 
increase when revealing it from under the Monk or Outpost. Just like human players, the AI Player must have the 
required Attribute to take the action. When placing Monks and Outposts, they will always target available spaces 
on the Main Board in a particular order. If there are multiple spaces available of the same reward type, they will 
always target the left-most space on the Main Board. 
 
The AI will first target “Free Recruit” spaces, then “Pay a Debt” (only if they have an unpaid Debt), followed by 
“Pray”, “Gain 2 Workers”, “Gain 1 Worker”, “Gain 2 Silver” and finally, “Remove 1 Suspicion”. Keep in mind 
that Recruit will always attempt to discard a Townsfolk Card for an immediate reward. Also, the Pray action will 
cause them to clear the right side of the AI Player Board (or gain 1 Worker) and shuffle all Scheme Cards.
Commission and Garrison
When taking this action, the AI Player must have enough Influence to target their left-most Jar. If they do, simply 
flip over the targeted Jar. The AI Player immediately increases their Faith by 1 on their Attribute Track and 
removes 1 Suspicion. They also either flip an unpaid Debt, or remove 1 additional Suspicion (in that order).
When taking this action, the AI Player must have enough Influence to build their next Wall. Just like when human 
players Fortify, the AI Player will place the Wall into the left-most space above their Player Board and gain all 
printed rewards. Note that if the Wall card offers a choice of rewards, it will always favour the left option first.
Absolve
Fortify

solo play rules: ai actions
When taking this action, the AI Player will always attempt to target the specified Outsider Card, based on the 
next card as described on Page 28. However, the AI Player must also have enough Strength to make the Attack. 
Therefore, they will only be able to target Outsider Cards within the limits of their Strength Attribute. Just like 
when human players Attack Outsiders, the AI Player will gain 1 or more immediate rewards and keep the Outsider 
Card facedown alongside their Player Board.
Attack
When taking this action, the AI Player will always attempt to target the specified Outsider Card, based on the 
next card as described on Page 28. However, the AI Player must also have enough Faith to successfully Convert 
the Outsider. Therefore, they will only be able to target Outsider Cards within the limits of their Faith Attribute. 
Just like when human players Convert Outsiders, the AI Player adds them to the left-most available space below 
their Player Board. Important Rule: The AI always scores a minimum of 1 VP for each Converted Outsider.
When taking this action, the AI Player will always attempt to take the right-most revealed King’s Order, of which 
they have not already completed. However, if they have completed all the revealed King’s Orders, they will still 
try to attempt the right-most 1. As with other actions, if they cannot take actions pertaining to any of the revealed 
King’s Orders, they will then move on to the top row actions of the AI Player Board.
For example, based on these 3 King’s Orders, the AI would 
first attempt to Commission, then Convert, then Fortify. 
 
If they had already done 5 Commissions, they would try to 
Convert instead. Likewise, if their Commission action space 
was already filled, they would try to Convert instead.
Convert
King’s Order

King’s Favour
When taking this action, the AI Player will always attempt to target the specified King’s Favour Card, based on the 
next card as described on Page 28. As with other actions, if they cannot action any of the revealed King’s Favour 
Cards, they will instead move on to the top row actions of the AI Player Board. 
 
For example, the AI Player has revealed a “King’s Favour” Scheme Card. Based on the position of the Resource 
Marker, they will attempt to place a Worker on the fifth (right-most) King’s Favour Card. However, this has 
already been blocked by another Worker. Following the flow of the Resource Track, they would then attempt the 
first (left-most) King’s Favour Card. As this is also blocked, they will instead place a Worker onto the second 
King’s Favour Card, removing 1 Suspicion and gaining 2 Tax. As they don’t collect resources, they would 
instead return 2 Silver from the Tax supply to the main supply and move the Resource Marker 2 spaces along the 
Resource Track. This would cause the Resource Marker to wrap around, landing back on the second space and 
increasing the AI Player’s lowest Attribute by 1.
Note that the AI Player does not carry Workers over between Rounds. They always start each Round with the 
specified number of Workers. Also, it is important to remember not to shuffle Scheme Cards between Rounds. 
This only happens when the AI Player takes the Pray action. 
 
In the regular game, if the right-most Townsfolk Card or left-most Outsider Card are still in play, they 
are discarded. However, in the Solo Game, also discard the second-right-most Townsfolk Card and 
second-left-most Outsider Card.
End of the Round

solo play rules: scoring example
For example, this AI player would score a total of 76 Victory Points for the following: 
14 VP for completing the second and third King’s Orders. 49 VP for their Attribute Markers. 5 VP for 
Commissioning 6 Monks. 2VP for Garrisoning 5 Outposts. 3 VP for their Armourer, 1 VP for their 
Lookout, 3 VP for their Guardian, 1 VP for their Protector, 2 VP for their Invader and 1 VP for their 
Hunter (the AI Player always scores a minimum of 1 VP for Converts). Lastly, 1 VP for their paid 
Debts and -6 VP for their unpaid Debts.

Outsider scoring
townsfolk abilities
Abbot, Acolyte, Architect, Defender, Gatekeeper, 
Missionary, Watchman. 
Gain the indicated reward when taking the specific 
action (Absolve, Commission, Develop, Attack, 
Fortify, Convert, Garrison). 
 
Conspirator 
Discard 1 Suspicion at each Inquisition. 
 
Debt Collector 
Gain the indicated Worker when paying off Debts. 
 
Peddler 
Gain the indicated reward at each Inquisition where 
you have 2 or more Suspicion. 
 
Squire 
Gain the indicated Attribute increase at each 
Inquisition where you have no Suspicion. 
 
 
Note: Conspirators, Peddlers and Squires all 
activate before any Debts are collected during 
each Inquisition. Also, players may resolve them 
in any order. For example, imagine that a player 
had 2 Conspirators, 1 Peddler and 2 Squires. 
They also had 2 Suspicion during an Inquisition. 
They decided to activate their Peddler, gaining its 
resources. They then activated both Conspirators 
to remove 2 Suspicion. Lastly, they activated their 
Squires as they no longer held any Suspicion.
Adventurer, Archer, Guardian, Hunter, Lookout, 
Vigilante 
Gain 1 VP per 2 of the indicated actions you have 
taken (Commission, Garrison, Develop, Recruit, 
Fortify, Absolve). 
 
Armourer, Marauder, Warrior 
Gain 1 VP per 4 of the indicated Attribute that you 
have (Strength, Influence, Faith). 
 
Assassin, Barbarian, Invader 
Gain 1 VP per indicated type of Outsider you have 
Attacked (Saracen, Byzantine, Viking). 
 
Champion 
Gain 1 VP, plus 1 additional VP for each King’s 
Order you have completed. 
 
Mercenary 
Gain 1 VP, plus 1 additional VP for each Mercenary 
you have Converted. 
1 Mercenary = 2VP, 2 Mercenaries = 3 VP each, etc 
 
Protector 
Gain 1 VP for each Debt you have paid off. 
 
Thief 
Gain 1 VP per Suspicion you hold. 
 
Traitor 
Lose 1 less VP for each unpaid Debt. 

quick reference for rewards
Gain 1 Faith 
 
 
Gain 1 Strength 
 
 
Gain 1 Influence 
 
 
Gain 1 Labourer 
 
 
Gain 1 Scout 
 
 
Gain 1 Merchant 
 
 
Gain 1 Fighter 
 
 
Gain 1 Cleric 
 
 
Gain 1 Criminal (remember to also gain 1 
Suspicion) 
 
 
Pray (remove all Workers from 1 action 
space on your Player Board)
Gain 1 Provision 
 
 
Gain 1 Silver (from the main supply) 
 
 
Gain 1 Silver (from the Tax supply) 
 
 
Remove 1 Suspicion 
 
 
Destroy (discard) 1 unpaid Debt 
 
 
Pay (flip over) 1 unpaid Debt 
 
 
Recruit 1 available Townsfolk for free 
(this does not cost Silver when gained 
as a reward from Commission, Garrison, 
Absolve or a King’s Favour)
These spaces can only be used in games 
with 3 or more players 
 
 
These spaces can only be used in games 
with 4 or more players 
Main Board Restrictions