PALEO
A new day dawns in the Stone Age. Your tribe ﬁghts for 
survival while steadily developing new advancements 
that lay the foundations of the human experience. But 
dangers abound: animals, storms, and hostile tribes 
await you in the wild. Can you survive?

 2 
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
Each player controls a group of people, including fierce warriors, clever inventors, and 
watchful scouts. Together, the players form a tribe, working together to explore their 
surroundings. You will encounter trials and adventures in the wilderness, and only by 
working together can you triumph and build a human legacy!
KEY CONCEPTS
• Paleo is a cooperative game. All players are working together on the same team, 
and will win and lose together. You are always allowed to discuss strategy with other 
players, and players can freely share information with each other.
• The game is played over multiple rounds. Each round consists of a day phase 
and a night phase. During the day, you will collect resources, make tools, and 
overcome various challenges. At night, you will feed your people and prepare for the 
following day.
• Each player controls their own group of people, and has their own deck of cards. 
These cards represent the environment you will explore, as well as the time available 
to you.
• The object of the game is to continue discovering new things. Thus, you will 
frequently uncover new tasks while you play. To avoid spoiling any surprises, don’t 
look at the cards too closely when you sort them. How to sort the cards is described in 
“Card Setup” on the right.
• During most games, you will use only 2 of the 10 included modules. The modules 
are sorted into 7 levels of gradually increasing difficulty, but you can mix and match 
modules however you choose. You can play the levels in any order you choose. There 
are always new adventures to discover in Paleo!
OBJECT OF THE GAME & ENDING THE GAME
The game ends in one of two ways:
Winning the Game: The object of the game is to complete the cave painting on the 
night board. To do so, you must collect 5 victory tokens as a tribe, adding these tokens 
to the night board on the corresponding space. Once you have collected all 5 victory 
tokens, you finish the cave painting that cements your tribe’s legacy, and all players 
immediately win the game!
Losing the Game: You must avoid collecting too many skull tokens over the course of 
the game. Skull tokens are also added to the night board on the corresponding spaces. 
If your tribe collects a 5th skull token, all players immediately lose the game.
In the rare event that you collect both the 5th skull token and the 5th victory token 
during the same action, the players win the game.
CARD SETUP
The cards are pre-sorted in the box. The individual 
sets and modules are identified by the symbols 
(numbers and letters) printed on the card fronts.
• Separate the cards based on their symbols.
Separate bags are provided for each set of cards. For your first 
game, return modules “C” through “J” to the box. You will need the 
remaining cards for Level 1. There are also 10 blank cards included, 
to allow players to create their own modules.
Base Cards
(32 cards)
Modules
(124 cards)
People
(20 cards)
Dreams
(16 cards)
Ideas
(8 cards)
Mysteries
(22 cards)
40 Resources
222 Cards
 48 Tool Tokens
3 Boards
1 Cemetery (for 
“removed” cards)
1 Workbench Before your ﬁrst game, assemble the workbench as shown.
40 Wound Tokens
5 Victory Tokens
2 Dice
Do not play your first game with 4 groups! If you are playing with 4 players, 2 
players should control a single group jointly, so that there are a total of 3 groups 
max. Paleo is a cooperative game, so all the players are always on the same team 
in any case. You should play with 4 groups only once most of the players are 
familiar with the game.
IMPORTANT!
Victory Token
Skull Token
Night
Wilderness
Base Camp
Food
Wood
Stone
5 Skull Tokens
“1” symbol on the 
front of a base card.
 A-J

 3 
Most aspects of setup are the same each game; the only 
changes are based on which modules you use.
Rules specific to each module are detailed under “Modules” on 
pages 2 & 3 of the supplemental rules.
Place the 3 boards 
in the middle of the 
play area.
SETUP
Sort the tool tokens by type. Next, place 5 
torches, 5 stone axes, and 5 spears on the 
corresponding spaces on the workbench. 
Place the remaining tool tokens in front of 
the workbench.
Place the workbench near the base 
camp board.
Place the cemetery 
next to the workbench.
Take the following 2 card sets: People (2), 
Dreams (3), and Ideas (4).
Shuffle each set separately and place them 
in 3 facedown decks on the 3 corresponding 
spaces on the base camp.
Take the base card set (1), add all the cards from 
the modules used for this game, and shuffle all 
these cards together.
Remember to remove some cards from each 
module before shuffling (see pages 2 & 3 of the 
supplemental rules for details).
• Deal all of the cards from this deck facedown, 
as evenly as possible, to each player. Do not look 
at the card fronts. The cards dealt to each player 
form that player’s deck.
• The cards may not be dealt out evenly to each 
player. This does not affect game balance.
Place the skull and 
victory tokens next 
to the night board.
Each player draws 2 people 
from the deck on the base 
camp board and places them 
faceup in front of them.
These 2 people form your 
individual group; more people 
will be added over the course 
of the game.
Finally, each player takes the 
tool tokens shown on their 
people’s cards, placing the 
next to their group. 
You can also set up the game as shown below
Base Camp
Night
Wilderness
Place 5 food on the storage 
area in the base camp.
Place the resources and wound tokens 
near the boards.

 4 
Forest
Mountain
People
Dream
Idea
 
You should discuss which cards to choose as a group, but you make the final 
decision on your own card choice.
You will mostly find wood and food in the 
forests, food and pelts in the rivers, and 
stone and pelts in the mountains. While 
back in camp, you can build and gain 
access to people, dreams, and ideas.
See the diagram on the base camp board 
for a summary of what can often be 
found on each card type.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
DAY PHASE
The first phase of every round is the day phase, where players resolve cards from their 
decks and make new discoveries. 
DAY PHASE
Each day phase consists of multiple turns. All players take their turns simultaneously.
CHOOSE A CARD
• Look at the backs of the top 3 cards of your deck, and choose 1 of them to place 
facedown in front of you. You can look only at the card backs; you cannot look at the 
card fronts.
You can look at the backs of all cards in your deck at any time. However, you cannot 
change the order of the cards.
•Then, return the other 2 cards to the top of your deck in the order of your choice.
Useful resources can often be found in the forest, river, and mountain. People, 
dreams, and ideas will always have something good to help you work toward your 
goal. Some card backs have additional symbols, which give hints as to what may be 
on the card front.
Card Backs
There are multiple different card backs. Card backs give you a hint of what might be 
found on that card, but you can never be sure: surprises abound in the Stone Age.
REVEALING CARDS
Once each player has chosen a card, reveal all chosen cards simultaneously.
• Each player chooses 1 option on their card, then resolves it. The players decide, 
as a group, the order in which cards are resolved. 
For an explanation of the options on cards and discarding cards, see “Action Cards” on 
page 6.
• Players continue choosing and resolving cards until all players’ decks are empty.
END OF DAY PHASE 
Once you have discarded all of your cards (your deck is empty), you go to sleep and 
stop participating in the day phase. Once you go to sleep, you cannot resolve cards 
or assist other players. Other players continue their day phases until all players have 
gone to sleep. Once all players have gone to sleep, the day phase ends and the night 
phase begins.
See page 9 for additional details.
GOING TO SLEEP EARLY
Instead of revealing and resolving a card, you may choose to discard the rest of 
your deck without effect, and immediately go to sleep.
This can be a good idea if you have a lot of dangerous cards with red backs remaining 
in your decks. See page 6 for additional details on discarding cards on page 6.
Next, we will look at example cards for more information about awaits you.
Example: Resolving a card
Example: Choosing a card
You draw the top 3 cards 
of your deck and look at 
the backs.
You choose 1 card 
and place it 
facedown in front 
of you.
You return the remaining 
2 cards to the top of your 
deck, in the order 
of your choice.
And 
others...
Example: Additional symbols on a card back
This card back shows a river, but also shows 
a mammoth. These may be some hints as 
to what can be found on this card, but you’ll 
need to investigate to discover exactly what it 
may hide.
Reveal these chosen cards simultaneously.

 5 
PEOPLE CARDS
People are shown by the green background on card backs. People join 
your group and allow you to resolve a variety of actions.
ONE-TIME TOOL
Some people give you a tool token when they 
join your group. When this person joins your 
group, take a matching tool token and keep it 
next to your group. 
You gain this token only once, when the person 
joins your group. Even if the person who gave 
you the tool is removed from your group, you 
keep the tool token.
This hunter givers you a “Pelt” tool token. See 
page 8 for more information about tool tokens.
CARD TYPE
TITLE
ABILITIES
Most people have 1 of 3 abilities.
This ability is available to support your group. 
This hunter has 1 strength.
HEALTH
When your group suffers wounds, you 
must choose one person in your group to 
be wounded. For each wound your group 
suffered, place 1 wound token on an empty 
heart space on the chosen person’s card.
• If there aren’t any empty heart spaces 
left but you still must place wound tokens, 
place 1 wound token on the skull space on 
that person’s card. That person dies. Ignore 
any remaining wounds that you would need 
to place.
• When a person dies, return the wound 
markers from that card to the supply. 
Remove the person from the game, placing 
them in the cemetery. Finally, place 1 skull 
token on the night board.
If the last person in your group dies, after 
placing the skull token, immediately draw a 
new person from the deck on the base camp 
board and add them to your group.
CARD SET
Ignore set numbers while playing the game. These are 
relevant only for setting up and storing the game.
Strength
Awareness
Skill
1X
1X
Example: Suffering wounds
You suffer 2 wounds and must 
place them on 1 of your people.
You decide to place them on the hunter. He already 
has 1 wound token on him, which means that you 
place 1 wound token on the skull space of his card, and 
he dies. You do not place the second wound token.
Remove the hunter card (placing it 
in the cemetery). 
Return the wound tokens to 
the supply.
Place 1 skull token on the night board.

 6 
Action cards are shown by the blue background.
You must always choose exactly 1 of the following options:
• Resolve 1 of the actions and gain the rewards
• Help another player
• Ignore the card
RESOLVING ACTIONS
Many cards give you various options, 
which give you different rewards. There 
are always requirements and costs (shown 
on the left) which you must meet in order 
to receive the reward (shown on the right).
HELPING
One option on each action card is to help another 
group (another player). When you do, you add all 
of the abilities and advantages of your group to the 
other player’s group to help them resolve their card.
• When you help another group, you can suffer 
wounds instead of that group.
• When you help another group, you and that group 
split the rewards from their action.
• You cannot discard cards from your deck while 
helping another player.
See page 10 for a detailed example of helping.
REWARDS
If you meet all the requirements and pay all costs for an 
action, you immediately receive the rewards.
• Place resources such as wood, food, and stone on the 
common storage area on the base camp board.
See page 8 for more information on what you can find.
ABILITIES (REQUIREMENTS)
Your group must have at least this ability total, adding 
together the abilities on all of your people.
Example: This action requires 2 skill.
DISCARD CARDS FROM YOUR DECK (COST)
• You must discard this many cards from the top of 
your own deck. Discard the cards facedown, without 
looking at the card fronts.
Example: This action requires discarding 2 cards.
• If you discard red cards to pay this cost, you suffer 1 
wound for each red card you discard
IGNORE THE CARD
If you can’t or don’t want to resolve an action on a 
card, you can ignore it, discarding it faceup.
CLEANUP
After you finish resolving an action, discard 
the card faceup.
ACTION CARDS
 
When you discard cards facedown, place them 
on the left space of the wilderness board, 
forming a facedown discard pile. You cannot 
look through cards on the left (facedown) space.
DISCARDING CARDS
When you discard cards faceup, place them on 
the right space of the wilderness board, forming a 
faceup discard pile. You can look through the right 
(faceup) discard pile at any time.
You reveal this card 
and decide to resolve 
the first action.
To resolve the action, you must also discard the 
top 2 cards from your deck. You discard them 
facedown to the facedown discard pile on the left 
space of the wilderness board. One of the cards 
was red, so one of your people suffers 1 wound.
Take the rewards from 
the supply and place 
them on the storage 
area on the base 
camp board.
Discard the resolved 
card faceup to the 
faceup discard pile on 
the right space of the 
wilderness board.
To resolve the action, you must have at 
least 2 skill. You have 2 crafters, and 
meet this requirement without needing 
help from other groups.
:
Example: Resolving an action card

 7 
Hazard cards are shown by the red background, or by the 
 
symbol. Hazard cards always have at least one negative action on 
them, and cannot be ignored. You must resolve an action on a 
hazard card, even a negative one.
If you cannot fully resolve a negative action, you must resolve as 
much as you can.
RED BACKS
Most cards with red backs are hazards. 
However, you can never be sure: sometimes 
you will find hazards lurking behind other 
card backs, and sometimes you will find 
something good on a red-backed card.
NEGATIVE ACTION
Unlike most other actions, you usually do 
not receive rewards from negative actions.
In this example, you suffer 1 wound. Other 
cards may force you to pay something, or 
may give you something to offset the loss.
REMOVE (COST)
Instead of placing the card in the discard pile as normal, 
remove the card, placing it in the cemetery after 
resolving the action. Unlike discarded cards, which are 
reshuffled at the beginning of each day phase, removed 
cards are removed from the game (unless an effect 
specifies otherwise). 
 
DICE
Some actions have unpredictable 
outcomes. Roll the number of 
dice shown. 
• The dice increase the ability 
requirements to resolve the action.
• If the die results mean that you 
cannot resolve the action, you must 
instead resolve a negative action on 
the card, or ignore the card if there are 
no negative actions.
• If you want to ask for help in 
resolving an action, you must do so 
before rolling dice. Other groups 
cannot decide to help you after you 
roll the dice.
This section explains the various symbols, actions, 
requirements, and costs that can appear on cards. You 
don’t need to memorize these symbols: use this section as a 
reference when each symbol comes up. 
ABILITIES (REQUIREMENTS)
Your group must at least meet the shown 
requirements to resolve that action. All abilities 
are resolved the same way: you do not need to pay 
anything, you just need to have the required abilities 
in your group.
PAYMENTS (COSTS)
This arrow means you must pay cards, tool tokens, 
or resources. If you can’t or don’t want to pay these 
items, then you cannot resolve the action.
• Pay resources from the storage area, returning 
them to the supply.
• Return the shown tool token to the supply. You 
must already have the tool in your group to pay it. 
You cannot use a tool token’s effect at the same 
time that you use it as a payment.
• Discard cards from your deck to the facedown 
discard pile on the wilderness board. You cannot 
change the order of cards in your deck: you must 
always pay the topmost card(s). 
Keep in mind: For each red-backed card you pay, 
you suffer 1 wound.
Other players cannot help you when discarding 
cards: you must always discard them yourself (see 
“Helping” on page 6). 
HAZARD CARD
ACTION CARD SYMBOLS
Example: Dice
Example: Removing a card
In addition to the known 
requirements, there are 
unknown requirements 
determined by the dice.
You roll 1 skill and 2 strength. 
To resolve this action, you 
must have a total of 3 skill 
and 2 strength. You must 
also discard 2 cards. After 
you resolve this action, you 
remove this card, placing it in 
the cemetery.

 8 
CRAFTING
Your group will need the right tools to survive dangerous 
trials. In order to craft tools, you must first have the idea 
for the tool. At the start of the game, you always have 
3 ideas you can use to craft: the torch, the stone axe, and 
the spear. You will find other idea cards during the game.
• This icon allows you to craft 1 item from the workbench. 
You must fulfill the requirements and pay the necessary 
resources and tool tokens in the same way you would pay 
for other actions.
• If you fulfill all the requirements and costs, you gain 
the reward.
When you successfully resolve an action, you 
immediately receive the rewards shown. As with costs, 
you don’t need to memorize these symbols, and should 
use this section as a reference.
RESOURCES
The most common rewards are food, wood, 
and stone. You must collect these resources 
to build new tools and to resolve most other 
actions. Take the resources from the supply 
and place them on the storage area on the 
base came board.
Resources are component-limited: if there 
are none left in the supply, you cannot take 
any more.
Resources you gain can be used by another 
player during the same turn.
TOOL TOKENS
Tool tokens represent objects you can craft 
from ideas, as well as certain other objects 
such as pelts and roots. Place the tool token 
next to your group. You can use the ability on 
the tool as soon as you gain it.
• To use the ability on a tool token, you must 
discard it. Thus, you can use each tool token 
only once. 
Talisman: When you reveal a hazard card, you 
can discard a talisman token to ignore that 
hazard card and discard it without effect.
Tent: Tents have no inherent effect, but other 
cards may require you to have a tent.
Raft: Rafts are needed only when using 
module H.
See page 3 of the supplemental rules 
for details.
CARDS
People: Draw 1 facedown person from the deck 
on the base camp board and add them, faceup, to 
your group. As always, if you add a person with a 
tool token, take that tool token.
• You must choose 1 of your people to die, placing 
their card in the cemetery. You must also place a 
skull token, as normal when a person dies.
Dreams: Draw 1 card from the facedown dream 
deck on the base camp board and place it 
facedown on top of your deck.
Dreams will show you the way to animals or special 
locations, or give you new sources of courage.
Ideas: Draw 1 card from the facedown idea deck 
on the base camp board and place it, visible to 
all players, in an empty slot on the workbench. 
If there is no more room, you must choose an 
idea card to remove to the cemetery. Some ideas 
allow you to craft new tools. In this case, take the 
corresponding tool tokens and place them in front 
of the idea card, indicating that they can now 
be crafted.
Secrets: Search the secret deck on the night 
board for the secret card with the shown number 
on it. Reveal the secret card and read it aloud to 
the other players. If the shown card was previously 
revealed and is no longer in the secret deck, you 
cannot reveal it again.
• Secret cards have new actions on them, and the 
player who revealed the secret card now resolves 
the secret card as well.
• Other groups can help you with secret cards as 
normal, even after the secret card is read. 
WOUNDS
One person suffers this many wounds. 
See “Health” on page 5. 
Prevent wounds: You can prevent this 
many wounds, usually by paying a tool 
token. You cannot use this to remove 
existing wounds, only to prevent 
wounds you are suffering now. 
Healing: Remove this many wound 
markers from people in your group. 
You can divide the healing among 
multiple people.
You can heal people in other groups 
only if you are helping them, or they 
are helping you.
SKULL TOKENS
Place a skull token on the night board. 
You immediately lose if the fifth skull 
token is placed. Sometimes skull 
tokens are unavoidable. 
• Remove a skull token from the night 
board, returning it to the supply.
This can buy you more time to 
complete your legacy.
VICTORY TOKENS
Place a victory tile on the night 
board. You immediately win when the 
fifth victory token is placed on the 
night board.
REWARDS
Example: Crafting
You reveal a card with a crafting action 
on it. You can now craft up to 2 ideas on 
the workbench.
You decide to craft a torch and a stone axe 
from the base of the workbench. You pay 
a total of 1 wood and 1 stone, and take 
1 torch and 1 stone axe.

 9 
NIGHT PHASE
Once all players are asleep (no one has any cards remaining in their decks), the night phase 
begins. See “End of Day Phase” on page 4. 
FEEDING
Each player must feed all of the people in their group. For each person, pay 1 food from the 
storage area to the supply. If there is not enough food to feed everyone, place 1 skull token 
on the night board for each unfed person. Unfed people do not die.
MISSION CARDS
After the people have been fed, you must deal with any faceup mission cards (each module contains 
1 mission card). During the night phase, only the area below the “moon” symbol matters. As a group, 
you must choose and resolve 1 of the actions shown. As with hazard cards, there is always a negative 
action option (often a skull).
Because these actions are resolved as a tribe, you can collectively choose who will pay necessary costs, 
such as tool tokens.
You cannot ignore mission cards. Mission cards remain in play after the action is resolved, unless the 
card indicates otherwise. 
NIGHT ACTION CARDS
Cards in your group with the 
symbol must be 
dealt with during the night phase in the same way as 
mission cards (you must choose and resolve 1 of the 
actions shown).
Shuffle all the cards in the faceup and facedown discard piles on the wilderness 
board together and deal them out facedown, as evenly as possible to the players. 
As normal, you cannot look at the card fronts. 
Once the cards are dealt, the night phase ends and the next day phase begins. 
Continue resolving day and night phases until the players win or lose the game.
A NEW DAY
NIGHT PHASE
Pay 3 food and 1 pelt, or place 
1 skull token on the night board. 
These cards remain in play, so you 
will need to deal with them again 
during the next night phase. 
Example: Module A Mission Card
Example: Night Phase (Level 1)
You must both feed your 
people and deal with 
mission cards during each 
night phase.
Player 3
There are 6 total people in all groups, so you 
must pay 6 food. You have only 4 food in the 
storage area, so you pay 4 food and take 2 skull 
tokens for the 2 unfed people.
For the “Bountiful Prey” mission card, 
you have 1 pelt, but cannot pay the 
food, so you must take another skull 
token. You keep the pelt.
For the “A New World” mission card, you 
decide that player 2 will pay their tent. 
Because you resolved that action, you do 
not resolve the other action, and do not 
take a skull token.
For this card, you 
must either pay 
1 food or take 
1 skull token.

 10 
See this example for a full breakdown of how a round is played. This 
example assigns colors to the players, unlike the normal game.
You are playing a 3-player game. Each player 
looks at the backs of the top 3 cards of their 
decks, and chooses 1 card to reveal.
Resolving an action: 
 Orange meets the ability 
requirements for the action, and 
discards the top 2 cards from their 
deck to pay the remaining cost.
Player 1 – Orange
Player 2 – Purple
Player 3 – Red
 Orange has a lot of awareness, but no strength. Purple 
decides to use the “helping” action on his card and 
discards his card. Between the two of them, they have 
the necessary requirements to resolve the top action on 
this card.
All players reveal 
their cards.
EXAMPLE OF PLAY

 11 
Suffering wounds: 
One of the cards that Orange 
discarded had a red back, which 
means they must take a wound 
token. Purple decides to discard a 
pelt to prevent the wound.
Rewards: 
 Orange places 2 food in the 
storage area. Orange and
 Purple agree that Purple 
should take the pelt.
 Orange 
Removes the 
“Deer” card, 
placing it in 
the cemetery.
Resolving an action:
 Red has waited until her 
fellow players have resolved 
their actions, and now 
resolves the action on her 
card. She chooses to add a 
new idea to the workbench, 
and meets the ability 
requirements to do so.
 Red draws the top idea card 
from the deck, reveals it, and 
adds it to the workbench. 
Because the idea has a 
corresponding tool token, she 
also places the corresponding 
tool tokens in front of the idea 
card on the workbench.

Example: Adding new cards
 12 
USING ALTERNATIVE ACTION CARDS 
To use these actions, you must use the 
 action on a card you 
revealed. Instead of helping another player, you can use this alternative 
action, whether it is present in your group or added to
. As with other 
actions, you must still pay additional costs or meet certain requirements 
to receive any rewards. Do not place the card in the discard pile after 
using this action.
If you want to use this type of action on another player’s card, that player 
must choose to help you by also using a 
 action.
SPECIAL CARDS
NEW CARDS
Some cards will include instruction on where to place them once 
revealed. You must do so. This counts as resolving the card, and you 
cannot choose any other action.
PLACING TOOLS AND RESOURCES ON CARDS 
Some cards require you to place tool tokens or resources directly onto them. As 
soon as you gain a tool or resource, you must decide whether to take it as normal, 
or place it on the card.
Once you add a tool or resource to a card, you cannot 
change your mind and use it for a different action, or return it 
to your group or the storage area. You can use it only for the 
action shown on the card it is on.
You now know everything you need to begin playing your first game. You can skip this 
section for now, and refer back to it when it becomes necessary.
ADDITIONAL ACTIONS
As you play, various cards with additional actions will be revealed and remain in play. Some of these will be 
in your group, while others will be added to either 
or 
. These actions do not count as an option during 
your turn. Do not place them in the discard pile after resolving them. You can resolve any number of these 
additional actions on your turn, whenever you like during your turn.
Example: Additional action 
on the “Howls in the Night” 
mission card:
card 
to your 
group.
Example: Using an alternative action
The players collectively decide to use “Darca” 
in Player 1’s group. Player 1 enables using her 
action by using the “helping” action on his just-
revealed “Deer” card.
Player 2 uses the “helping” action on his 
just-revealed “Trees” card to use “Darca’s” 
action. Because “Darca” is in Player 1’s 
group, Player 1 must pay the 1 card discard 
cost to resolve the action. 
Player 1 and Player 2 
have revealed their cards. 
Player 1 revealed “Deer”, 
while Player 2 revealed “Trees”. 
Both players agree that Player 2 
will draw the new person, adding 
them faceup to their group.
card 
to your 
group.