by Matt Leacock
Do you have what it takes to save humanity? As skilled members of a disease-fighting team, you must keep 
four deadly diseases at bay while discovering their cures.
You and your teammates will travel across the globe, treating infections while finding resources for cures. 
You must work together, using your individual strengths, to succeed. The clock is ticking as outbreaks and 
epidemics fuel the spreading plagues.
Can you find all four cures in time? The fate of humanity is in your hands!
CONTENTS
7 Role cards
59 Player cards
(48 City cards, 6 Epidemic cards, 5 Event cards)
96 Disease cubes
24 in 4 colors
4 Cure markers
4 Reference cards
1 Board
1 Infection rate 
marker
1 Outbreaks marker
6 Research stations
OVERVIEW
In Pandemic, you and your fellow players are members of a disease control team. You must work together to develop cures 
and prevent disease outbreaks, before 4 deadly diseases (Blue, Yellow, Black, and Red) contaminate humanity.
Pandemic is a cooperative game. The players all win or lose together.
The goal is to discover cures for all 4 diseases. The players lose if:
• 8 outbreaks occur (a worldwide panic happens),
• not enough disease cubes are left when needed (a disease spreads too much), or,
• not enough player cards are left when needed (your team runs out of time).
Each player has a specific role with special abilities to improve the team’s chances.
Eradication 
“
” side
48 Infection cards
7 Pawns
4,887,000 
4,500/KM2
15,512,000 
3,500/KM2
575,000 
2,800/KM2
GERMANY
GERMANY
ESSEN
ESSEN
reMove Any 1 cArd in the infection 
discArd pile froM the GAMe. 
you MAy plAy this between the infect And 
intensify steps of An epideMic.
RESILIENT POPULATION
20,767,000 
14,400/KM2
IRAQ
BAGHDAD
Move to a city connected by a white line.
Move from a city with a research station to any other city that has 
a research station.
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to move 
to any city.
DireCt Flight
actions
skip the next infect cities step 
(do not flip over Any infection cArds).
ONE QUIET NIGHT
CITY
BUILD A RESEARCH STATION
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to place a research 
station there.
DISCOVER A CURE
At any research station, discard 5 City cards of the same disease color to 
cure that disease.
SHARE KNOWLEDGE
Either: give the card that matches the city you are in to another player, or 
take that card from another player. The other player must also be in the city 
with you.
TREAT DISEASE
Remove 1 disease cube from the city you are in. If this color is cured, remove 
all cubes of that color from the city.
CHICAGO
VIETNAM
HO CHI MINH CITY
To see a Pandemic teaching video, go to:
www.zmangames.com/pandemic-online-rules.html

MontrÉal
new York
waShington
atlanta
loS angeleS
Mexico citY
liMa
Santiago
BuenoS aireS
São Paulo
lagoS
kinShaSa
J
Madrid
london
eS
MiaMi
Bogotá
SETUP
Set out the board and pieces
Place outbreaks 
and cure markers
Give each player cards and a pawn
Disease cubes
Give each player a reference card. Shuffle the Role cards and 
deal 1 face up in front of each player. Place the matching 
colored pawns for these roles in Atlanta. Remove from the 
game the remaining Role cards and pawns.
Take the Epidemic cards out the Player Deck and set them 
aside until Step 5. Shuffle the other Player cards (City and 
Event cards). Deal cards to the players to form their initial 
hands. Give cards according to the number of players:
Place the outbreaks marker on the “0” space of the 
Outbreaks Track. Place the 4 cure markers, “vial” side up, 
near the Discovered Cure Indicators.
Place the board within easy reach of all players. Put the 6 research 
stations and disease cubes nearby. Separate the cubes by color into 
4 supply piles. Place 1 research station in Atlanta.
Atlanta is home to the CDC, the Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention.
# of players 	
Cards
2-player game	
3-player game	
4-player game	
Outbreak marker
Outbreak track
Cure markers
Discovered Cure 
Indicators
Research stations
Move to a city connected by a white line.
Move from a city with a research station to any other city that has 
a research station.
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to move 
to any city.
DireCt Flight
actions
8,702,000 
21,000/KM2
ATLANTA
4,715,000 
700/KM2
ATLANTA

JohanneSBurg
khartouM
riYadh
Sen
Milan
St. PeterSBurg
MoScow
tehran
karachi
MuMBai
chennai
delhi
kolkata
Jakarta
taiPei
hong 
kong
Shanghai
BeiJing
Seoul
oSaka
1.Do 4 actions
2.Draw 2 cards 
•Resolve any epidemics 
•Discard to 7 cards
3.Infect cities
loS 
angeleS
Place infection rate marker 
and infect 9 cities
Set the game’s difficulty level, by using either 4, 5, or 6 Epidemic cards, for 
an Introductory, Standard, or Heroic game. Remove any unused Epidemic 
cards from the game.
Divide the remaining player cards into face down piles, as equal in size as 
you can, so that the number of piles matches the number of Epidemic cards 
you are using. Shuffle 1 Epidemic card into each pile, face down. Stack these 
piles to form the Player Deck, placing smaller piles on the bottom.
Begin play
The players look at the City cards they have in their hand. 
The player with the highest City population goes first.
PLAY
Each player turn is divided into 3 parts:
1. Do 4 actions.
2. Draw 2 Player cards.
3. Infect cities.
After a player is done infecting cities, the player on 
their left goes next.
Players should freely give each other advice. Let 
everyone offer opinions and ideas. However, the player 
whose turn it is decides what to do.
Your hand can have City and Event cards in it. 
City cards are used in some actions and Event cards 
can be played at any time.
Place the infection rate marker on the left-most “2” space of the 
Infection Rate Track. Shuffle the Infection cards and flip over 3 of them. 
Put 3 disease cubes of the matching color on each of these cities. 
Flip over 3 more cards: put 2 disease cubes on each of these cities. 
Flip over 3 more cards: put 1 disease cube on each of these cities. 
(You will place a total of 18 disease cubes, each matching the color of 
the city.) Place these 9 cards face up on the Infection Discard Pile. 
The other Infection cards form the Infection Deck.
Use disease cubes matching the card colors.
Player Deck
Player 
Discard Pile
Prepare the Player Deck
Use 4 Epidemic cards 
for your first game.
Use 6 after mastering 
the Standard game.
Infection Deck
Infection Discard Pile
Infection Rate Marker
Infection 
Rate Track
VIETNAM
HO CHI MINH CITY
ALGERIA
ALGIERS
JAPAN
TOKYO
WASHINGTON
CHICAGO
Shuffle
Stack

MontrÉal
new York
waShington
atlanta
loS angeleS
Mexico citY
liMa
Santiago
BuenoS aireS
São Paulo
lagoS
kinShaSa
JohanneSBurg
khartouM
riYadh
Madrid
london
eSSen
Milan
St. PeterSBurg
MoScow
tehran
karachi
MuMBai
chennai
delhi
kolkata
Jakarta
taiPei
hong 
kong
Shanghai
BeiJing
Seoul
oSaka
MiaMi
Bogotá
1.Do 4 actions
2.Draw 2 cards 
•Resolve any epidemics 
•Discard to 7 cards
3.Infect cities
loS 
angeleS
 final size marks
A white line that goes off the board “wraps around” 
to the other edge and connects to a city. 
Example: Sydney and Los Angeles are connected.
15,512,000 
3,500/KM2
ACTIONS
You may do up to 4 actions each turn.
Select any combination of the actions listed below. You may do the same action 
several times, each time counting as 1 action. Your role’s special abilities may change 
how an action is done. Some actions involve discarding a card from your hand; all these 
discards go to the Player Discard Pile.
MOVEMENT ACTIONS
Move to a city connected by a white line to the one you are in.
Direct Flight
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to move to any city.
Move from a city with a research station to any other city that has a 
research station.
OTHER ACTIONS
Build a Research Station
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to place a research 
station there. Take the research station from the pile next to the board. If all 
6 research stations have been built, take a research station from anywhere 
on the board.
Treat Disease
Remove 1 disease cube from the city you are in, placing it in the cube 
supply next to the board. If this disease color has been cured (see 
Discover a Cure below), remove all cubes of that color from the city you 
are in.
If the last cube of a cured disease is removed from the board, this disease 
is eradicated. Flip its cure marker from its “vial” side to its “
Share Knowledge
You can do this action in two ways:
give the City card that matches the city you are in to another player, or
take the City card that matches the city you are in from another player. 
The other player must also be in the city with you. Both of you need to 
agree to do this. 
If the player who gets the card now has more than 7 cards, that player must 
immediately discard a card or play an Event card (see Event Cards on page 7).
Discover a Cure
At any research station, discard 5 City cards of the same color from your 
hand to cure the disease of that color. Move the disease’s cure marker to its 
Cure Indicator.
If no cubes of this color are on the board, this disease is now eradicated. 
Flip its cure marker from its “vial” side to its “
CITY
If there are cubes from several cured diseases in a 
city, you must still Treat Disease once for each cured 
color to remove these cubes.
If more than 6 research stations were supplied, 
set any extra aside during setup.
Example: If you have the Moscow 
City card and are with another player 
in Moscow, you can give this card to 
that player. Or, if another player has 
the Moscow card and you both are in 
Moscow, then you can take it from that 
player. In either case, you both must 
agree before handing the card over.
Eradicating a disease is not needed to win. However, 
when cities of an eradicated disease are infected, no 
new disease cubes are placed there (see Epidemics 
and Infections on page 6). Removing the last cube of 
a disease that is not cured has no effect. 
When a disease is cured, its cubes remain on the 
board and new cubes can still be placed during 
epidemics or infections (see Epidemics and 
Infections on page 6). However, treating this disease 
is now easier and you are closer to winning.

Play Example: On the first turn, Ben does 4 actions: 
(1) Drive to Chicago (from Atlanta), (2) Drive to San Francisco, 
(3) Treat Disease in San Francisco, removing a blue disease cube 
there, and (4) Treat Disease in San Francisco again, removing a 
second blue disease cube. 
Ben has finished the Actions part of his turn.
Play Example: Later in the game, the red disease has been cured.
 
3 red cubes remain on the board in Manila, where Anna the Scientist 
(white pawn) begins her turn. Anna (1) Treats Disease in Manila, 
removing all 3 cubes with one action (since this disease has been 
cured). This eradicates the red disease, so the red cure marker is 
flipped over to its “ 
George, the Operations Expert (green pawn), is in 
Chennai, having built a research station there.
George tells Anna that he has the Chennai City card 
in his hand and offers to let Anna take it from him 
if she can get to Chennai. Anna discards her Manila 
City card for a (2) Charter Flight, moving her pawn 
to Chennai.
Anna then (3) Shares Knowledge with George, taking 
his Chennai card. Doing this gives Anna 4 black cards, 
which is not enough to cure a disease.
However, Anna is the Scientist and needs to discard only 4 cards of 
the same color to cure the corresponding disease. Anna (4) Discovers 
a Cure, discarding her 4 black cards at the Chennai research station. 
The black cure marker is moved to the Black Cure Indicator.
Anna has finished the Actions part of her turn.
ennai
Mani
ai
20,767,000 
14,400/KM2
8,865,000 
14,600/KM2
7,419,000 
9,500/KM2
IRAN
IRAN
TEHRAN
TEHRAN
5,037,000 
3,400/KM2
16,910,000 
30,900/KM2
MUMBAI
MUMBAI
8,865,000 
14,600/KM2

INFECTIONS
Flip over as many Infection cards from the top of the Infection Deck as the 
current infection rate. This number is below the space of the Infection Rate 
Track that has the infection rate marker. Flip these cards over one at a time, 
infecting the city named on each card.
To infect a city, place 1 disease cube matching its color onto the city, unless 
this disease has been eradicated. If the city already has 3 cubes of this color, 
do not place a 4th cube. Instead, an outbreak of this disease occurs in the city 
(see Outbreaks below). Discard this card to the Infection Discard Pile.
In this case in the second epidemic’s Infection card will be the 
only card to “reshuffle”, ending on top of the Infection Deck. 
An outbreak will then occur in this city during Infections (see 
Infections, below), unless an Event card is played to prevent this 
(see Event Cards on page 7).
cow
SOUTH KOREA
SEOUL
FRANCE
PARIS
ALGERIA
ALGIERS
Play Example (cont.): Anna ends her turn by infecting cities. The current 
infection rate is 3, so Anna flips over the top 3 Infection cards: Seoul, 
then Paris, then Algiers. 
The red disease is eradicated, so Anna simply discards the Seoul card.
 Paris has a blue cube on it, so Anna adds a second blue cube there and 
discards the Paris card. 
The black disease has been cured — but not eradicated (black cubes are 
still on the board) — so Anna must infect Algiers. Since 3 black disease 
cubes are already in Algiers, Anna does not place a 4th cube there. 
Instead, a black disease outbreak happens in Algiers.
DRAW CARDS
After doing 4 actions, draw the top 2 cards together from the Player 
Deck.
If, as you are about to draw, there are fewer than 2 cards left 
in the Player Deck, the game ends and your team has lost! 
(Do not reshuffle the discards to form a new deck.)
EPIDEMIC CARDS
If your draws include any Epidemic cards, immediately do the following 
steps in order:
1. Increase: Move the infection rate marker forward 1 space on the 
Infection Rate Track.
2. Infect: Draw the bottom card from the Infection Deck. Unless its 
disease color has been eradicated, put 3 disease cubes of that color on 
the named city. If the city already has cubes of this color, do not add 
3 cubes to it. Instead, add just enough cubes so that it has 3 cubes of 
this color and then an outbreak of this disease occurs in the city (see 
Outbreaks below). Discard this card to the Infection Discard Pile.
If you cannot place the number of cubes actually needed on 
the board, because there are not enough cubes of the needed 
color left in the supply, the game ends and your team has 
lost! This can occur during an epidemic, an outbreak, or 
infections (see Outbreaks and Infections below).
3. Intensify: Reshuffle just the cards in the Infection Discard Pile and 
place them on top of the Infection Deck.
When doing these steps, remember to draw from the bottom 
of the Infection Deck and to then reshuffle only the Infection 
Discard Pile, placing it on top of the existing Infection Deck.
It is rare but possible to draw 2 Epidemic cards at once. In this case, do 
all three steps above once and then again.
After resolving any Epidemic cards, remove them from the game. 
Do not draw replacement cards for them.
HAND LIMIT
If you ever have more than 7 cards in hand (after first resolving any 
Epidemic cards you may have drawn), discard cards or play Event cards 
until you have 7 cards in hand (see Event Cards on page 7).
 
 
Play Example (cont.): Anna draws 2 
cards. Neither is an Epidemic card and 
Anna is well under her 7-card hand limit, 
so Anna continues her turn.
9,121,000 
14,100/KM2
20,464,000 
1,800/KM2
NEW YORK
NEW YORK
rid

OUTBREAKS
When a disease outbreak occurs, move the outbreaks marker forward 
1 space on the Outbreaks Track. Then, place 1 cube of the disease color 
on every city connected to the city. If any of them already has 3 cubes of 
the disease color, do not place a 4th cube in those cities. Instead, in each of 
them, a chain reaction outbreak occurs after the current outbreak is done.
When a chain reaction outbreak occurs, first move the outbreaks marker 
forward 1 space. Then, place cubes as above, except do not add a cube to 
cities that have already had an outbreak (or a chain reaction outbreak) as 
part of resolving the current Infection card.
As a result of outbreaks, a city may have disease cubes of multiple colors on 
it; up to 3 cubes of each color.
If the outbreaks marker reaches the last space of the Outbreaks 
Track, the game ends and your team has lost!
TURN END
After infecting cities and discarding Infection cards, your turn is over. 
The player on your left begins a turn. 
EVENT CARDS
During a turn, any player may play Event cards. Playing 
an Event card is not an action. The player who plays an 
Event card decides how it is used.
Event cards can be played at any time, except in between 
drawing and resolving a card.
Example: During infections, the first Infection card drawn causes an 
outbreak. You may not play the Airlift Event card to move the Quarantine 
Specialist to prevent this. After this outbreak happens however, you may 
use Airlift to move the Quarantine Specialist (to possibly protect other 
cities) before flipping over the next Infection card.
After playing an Event card, discard it to the Player Discard Pile.
PLAYER CARDS
When playing the Introductory game (4 Epidemic cards), place your 
cards face up in front of you, for all players to see.
When playing the Standard (5 Epidemics) or Heroic (6 Epidemics) 
games, keep your cards private, so everyone has information to 
contribute to play discussions.
Players may freely examine either discard pile at any time.
GAME END
The players win as soon as cures to all 4 diseases are discovered.
There are 3 ways for the game to end and the players to lose:
• if the outbreaks marker reaches the last space of the Outbreaks Track,
• if you are unable to place the number of disease cubes actually 
needed on the board, or
• if a player cannot draw 2 Player cards after doing his actions.
When 2 Epidemic cards are drawn together, events can be played 
after resolving the first epidemic.
Experienced groups may decide to play with open hands, 
if desired, in these games.
Only Player cards count towards your hand limit. 
Your Role and your Reference cards are not part of your hand.
The players do not have to eradicate all 4 diseases to win; 
just cure them. Once all diseases are cured, the game ends and players 
win immediately, no matter how many cubes are on the board.
karac
Play Example (cont.): A black disease outbreak 
occurs in Algiers. Anna moves the outbreaks 
marker forward 1 space and places 1 black cube 
on every city connected to Algiers: Madrid, Paris, 
Istanbul, and Cairo. Cairo already has 3 black 
cubes, so Anna does not place a 4th cube there. 
Instead, a chain reaction outbreak occurs in Cairo.
Anna moves the outbreaks marker forward 
1 more space. She places 1 black cube on every 
city connected to Cairo — Istanbul, Baghdad, 
Riyadh, and Khartoum — but not Algiers, 
as Algiers has already had an outbreak while 
resolving this Infection card. Then, Anna discards 
the Algiers Infection card.
d
AIRLIFT
Move Any 1 pAwn to Any city. 
Get perMission before MovinG 
Another plAyer’s pAwn.

COMMONLY OVERLOOKED 
RULES
• You do not draw a replacement card after drawing an Epidemic card.
• You may Discover a Cure at any Research Station — the color of its 
city does not need to match the disease you are curing.
• On your turn, you may take a card from another player, if you are both 
in the city that matches the card you are taking.
• On your turn, you may take any City card from the Researcher (only), 
if you are both in the same city.
• Your hand limit applies immediately after getting a card from 
another player.
CREDITS
Game design: Matt Leacock
Artwork: Chris Quilliams
Special thanks to Donna Leacock, Hillary Carey, Chris and Kim Farrell, Rich 
Fulcher, Ken Tidwell, Corbin Nash, Jim Cote, Steve Duff, Wei-Hwa Huang, and, 
for additional testing, Beth Heile and John Knoerzer.
Very special thanks to Tom Lehmann for his assistance.
Learn the rules online at: 
www.zmangames.com/pandemic-online-rules.html
© 2015 F2Z Entertainment Inc. 
31 rue de la Coopérative 
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 
Canada
Z-Man, Z-Man Games, Z-Man Games & Design are trademarks of F2Z Entertainment Inc. Apple and the 
Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service 
mark of Apple Inc. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc. Amazon’s trademark is used under license from 
Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
ROLES
Each player has a role with special abilities to improve your team’s chances.
CONTINGENCY PLANNER 
The Contingency Planner may, as an action, take an 
Event card from anywhere in the Player Discard Pile 
and place it on his Role card. Only 1 Event card can be 
on his role card at a time. It does not count against his 
hand limit.
When the Contingency Planner plays the Event card on his role card, 
remove this Event card from the game (instead of discarding it).
• As an action, take any discarded 
Event card and store it on this card.
• When you play the stored Event 
card, remove it from the game.
Limit: 1 Event card on this card at a 
time, which is not part of your hand.
CONTINGENCY
 
PLANNER
DISPATCHER 
The Dispatcher may, as an action, either:
• move any pawn, if its owner agrees, to any city 
containing another pawn, or
• move another player’s pawn, if its owner agrees, 
as if it were his own.
The Dispatcher can only move other players’ pawns; he may not direct 
them to do other actions, such as Treat Disease.
• Move another player’s pawn as if it 
were yours.
• As an action, move any pawn to a 
city with another pawn.
Get permission before moving 
another player’s pawn.
DISPATCHER
MEDIC 
The Medic removes all cubes, not 1, of the same color 
when doing the Treat Disease action.
	
If a disease has been cured, he automatically removes 	
	
all cubes of that color from a city, simply by entering it 	
	
or being there. This does not take an action.
The Medic also prevents placing disease cubes (and outbreaks) of cured 
diseases in his location.
• Remove all cubes of one color when 
doing Treat Disease.
• Automatically remove cubes of 
cured diseases from the city you 
are in (and prevent them from being 
placed there).
MEDIC
OPERATIONS EXPERT 
The Operations Expert may, as an action, either:
• build a research station in his current city without 
discarding (or using) a City card, or
• once per turn, move from a research station to any city 
by discarding any City card.
• As an action, build a research 
station in the city you are in 
(no City card needed).
• Once per turn as an action, move 
from a research station to any city 
by discarding any City card.
OPERATIONS 
 
EXPERT
QUARANTINE SPECIALIST 
The Quarantine Specialist prevents both outbreaks and 
the placement of disease cubes in the city she is in 
and all cities connected to that city. She does not affect 
cubes placed during setup.
QUARANTINE 
 
 
SPECIALIST
• Prevent disease cube placements 
(and outbreaks) in the city you are 
in and all cities connected to it.
The Scientist needs only 4 (not 5) City cards of 
the same disease color to Discover a Cure for that 
disease.
info@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com
RESEARCHER 
When doing the Share Knowledge action, the Researcher 
may give any City card from her hand to another player 
in the same city as her, without this card having to match 
her city. The transfer must be from her hand to the other 
player’s hand, but it can occur on either player’s turn.
• You may give any 1 of your City cards 
when you Share Knowledge. It need not 
match your city. A player who Shares 
Knowledge with you on their turn can 
take any 1 of your City cards.
RESEARCHER
The Dispatcher may not use the Operations Expert’s special 
move ability when moving the Operation Expert’s pawn.
When moving a player’s pawn as if it were your own, discard cards 
for Direct and Charter Flights from your hand. A card discarded for a 
Charter Flight must match the city the pawn is moving from.
The Medic’s automatic removal of cubes can occur on other players’ 
turns, if he is moved by the Dispatcher or the Airlift Event.
 Follow Pandemic The Board game on