WASHINGTON
TRIPOLI
GAME IN JANUARY.
DO NOT DRAW, REVEAL, LOOK AT, 
HANDLE, OR OTHERWISE DISTURB 
THESE CARDS UNTIL INSTRUCTED.
01-01a
ACTIONS (CONT.)
RECON
Discard cards at an eligible location to explore the world.
The location must contain a supply center.
Take 1 Supply cube from the stockpile and put it onto your Character card.
Put any number of Supply cubes from your Character card 
into your current location.
Take any number of Supply cubes from your location and put them 
onto your Character card.
Give Supply cubes to another player in your location or take Supply cubes 
from that player (with permission).
Do any number of free actions during the “Do Actions” step of your turn.
Move to an adjacent location connected by a line.
Discard a card to move to the city named on the card, 
Discard the card that matches your current city to move to any location, 
Either: give a card that matches the city you are in to another player, 
or take that card from another player. 
Both of you must be in the city matching the card.
Discard 5 cards matching your city’s color to build a supply center there.
ACTIONS
30°2’40’’N 31°14’9’’E
30°2’40’’N 31°14’9’’E
23°33’2’’S 46°37’60’’W
23°33’2’’S 46°37’60’’W
Take up to 2 Supply cubes 
from the stockpile and put 
them onto any  location(s).
Team Bravo
PROLOGUE
PLAY USING ALL THE RULES EXCEPT:
• Do not open the Legacy deck.
• Your character cannot get exposed.
• You cannot do the Recon action.
• You cannot do System-Wide Production 
when you play Produce Supplies cards.
• Do not do Game End steps.
WHEN YOU HAVE PLAYED THE PROLOGUE 
ENOUGH TIMES TO FEEL COMFORTABLE:
• Destroy this card and the Prologue 
Objective card.
• Open the Legacy deck.
• Start your campaign.
00-01b
Jacksonville
Washington
São Paulo
Tripoli
Cairo
* * * *
* *
E
1. Adjust population
2. Check Legacy deck
3. Resolve Game End cards
4. Spend production units
CITIES ON 
PRODUCTION 
UNITS
1–10
11–16
17–24
25–33
34–42
43+
+1 if you won the game
PORTS
Required for the Sail and 
Charter Boat actions.
Recon with any 4 yellow 
here to open Package 5.
Recon with 5 unique yellow 
10 Character 
53 Player cards
36 City cards, 5 Epidemic cards, 
4 Rationed Event cards, 
8 Produce Supplies cards
36 Supply 
cubes
82 Legacy 
2 Prologue 
1 Board
 8 Numbered packages
1 Infection 
Rate marker
3 Tracking
 tokens
1 Incident 
2 Sticker sheets
This manual
6 Dossiers
4 Haven 
worker cards
9 Supply 
centers
27 Infection cards
4 Pawns
You will need a pen. It is not included in this box.
MATT LEACOCK AND ROB DAVIAU
8 Reference 
STARTING COMPONENTS
STARTING COMPONENTS
8 Plague 
cubes

THE WORLD ALMOST ENDED 71 YEARS AGO
THE WORLD ALMOST ENDED 71 YEARS AGO
The plague came out of nowhere and ravaged the world. Fever, cough, sores, and death – once infected, 
most died within a week. Nothing could stop it. The world did its best. It wasn’t good enough.
The last fragments of our people have desperately kept the world from collapsing completely. For three 
generations we have lived on the seas, on floating stations they called “havens.” Far from the plague, 
we are able to provide supplies to the mainland – antibiotics, food, medicine, and tools – to keep them 
(and us) from succumbing completely. We keep a network of the largest known cities in the world alive. 
Things have been tough the past few years. Cities far away from the havens have fallen off our grid. 
We don’t know what’s happened to them. We don’t know why the supplies aren’t reaching them. 
We have only a few cities left on our grid. We are failing.
The supplies aren’t keeping the plague away like they used to. What’s more, they’re running out. 
Our leadership tried to hide this fact from us, but we all knew.
Last week, the leaders and thinkers of the havens gathered together as they do every year to discuss 
the state of the havens and the state of the world. They did not return. What’s worse is that our 
main security team was with them. Without our soldiers, the Hollow Men – roving bands of savages bent 
on our elimination – will expand their attacks, tearing down what we build and stealing what we offer.
Those of us left met on the havens to discuss what to do next. After hours of debate, we realized 
that all eyes had turned to a select few to lead. Us. 
Not because we are able to lead but because we are willing.
We are starting this journal to record our attempts to keep the world from ending.
We know we can’t save all the cities but we will do what we can to save most of them.
If we fail, we hope that someone, somewhere, finds these notes to know that we may not have 
succeeded but that we tried.

GAME IN JANUARY.
DO NOT DRAW, REVEAL, LOOK AT, 
HANDLE, OR OTHERWISE DISTURB 
THESE CARDS UNTIL INSTRUCTED.
01-01a
PROLOGUE
PLAY USING ALL THE RULES EXCEPT:
• Do not open the Legacy deck.
• Your character cannot get exposed.
• You cannot do the Recon action.
• You cannot do System-Wide Production 
when you play Produce Supplies cards.
• Do not do Game End steps.
WHEN YOU HAVE PLAYED THE PROLOGUE 
ENOUGH TIMES TO FEEL COMFORTABLE:
• Destroy this card and the Prologue 
Objective card.
• Open the Legacy deck.
• Start your campaign.
00-01b
PLAYING A LEGACY GAME
Unlike most games, which fully reset every time 
you play, Pandemic Legacy carries some elements 
forward from one game to the next. Decisions you 
make in game 1 will be there in game 2, 3, and every 
game played with your copy of the game. Different 
groups will make different decisions and will have a 
different experience. What results is a game unique 
to the group that plays it.
You will write on parts of the game. You will put 
stickers on cards, the characters, and the board. 
Sometimes you will even destroy (tear up) a card. 
These changes are permanent. Also, at the end 
of each game, your group will make permanent 
improvements to prepare for future games. 
As you play, you will find other ways the game 
will change.
Some elements of play are hidden and sealed off 
before your very first game. As you play, you will 
find instructions that tell you when to open these 
packages. Do not open the packages in the box until 
you receive instructions to do so. The dossiers also 
contain hidden information that will be revealed as 
you play. 
Some rules are missing throughout the manual. 
As you play, you will gain these missing rules and 
stick them into the manual. From that point on, 
the rules will be permanently changed.
LEGACY DECK
The Legacy deck contains cards that 
will describe what happens over the 
course of the game’s 12 months. It is 
arranged in a specific order – do not 
look through or shuffle these cards. 
During setup, draw the cards and 
read them one at a time, until you get to a card that 
says PAUSE or STOP on the back. This card will tell 
you when to continue drawing from the deck, which 
might be at the end of a game, or during setup of 
the next month. The Legacy deck is a one way trip. 
Even if you repeat a month, do not put Legacy cards 
back. If the Legacy deck becomes scattered, have 
someone who is not playing the game put the cards 
back in order using the numbers in the corner of 
each card.
IF YOU’VE PLAYED 
SEASON 1
You will be familiar with a lot of elements in this 
game, such as the Legacy deck, rationing levels 
(called funding in Season 1), game end upgrades, 
dossiers, and sealed packages. But there is a lot that 
is new. You don’t have to have played Season 1 to 
play this game; they are independent games linked 
by their storyline.
WHAT STAYS AND WHAT GETS RESET?
Writing on the components, putting stickers on the 
board or on cards, opening new materials, scratching 
off cards, and tearing up or destroying components are 
permanent changes. 
When the game tells you to destroy a component, it will 
not be used in that or any future games. Tear it up (or 
do what you like with it). 
In all other ways, the game resets for the start of each 
game. The pieces on the board, cards in hand, incidents, 
etc. all reset.
GAME MONTHS
Pandemic Legacy is broken into 12 months, starting in 
the 71st year after the end of the world.
If your group succeeds in a month, you move on to play 
the next month. If you fail, you get one more chance to 
succeed in the current month. Start a new game with 
the current set of rules and objectives for the month you 
just lost. If you lose again, you must move on to the next 
month for your next game. The world can’t wait.
END OF THE CAMPAIGN
The campaign will end after you finish December 
(win or lose!). At that point, you will be scored on your 
final results. Your score will largely be based on how 
many months you won (winning in the earlier part of the 
month is better). The population of the grid will have a 
(lesser) impact on your score. There will be other criteria 
that will also add to or subtract from your score.
Since this game is different from base Pandemic 
(and from Pandemic Legacy – Season 1), there is a 
prologue game. This prologue game has no legacy 
effects – there are no permanent changes. You should 
play the prologue at least once and as many times 
as you want, until you feel comfortable with the new 
gameplay. After that, you should start your 
Legacy campaign.
PROLOGUE RULES
Use the two Prologue cards (found 
with the Player and Infection decks) 
to walk you through your objectives.
Read the Journal Entry/Prologue card for background 
information and to learn what rules are different for the 
prologue game.
Use the Prologue Objective card during the game.
WELCOME TO PANDEMIC LEGACY – SEASON 2
WELCOME TO PANDEMIC LEGACY – SEASON 2
THE PROLOGUE
THE PROLOGUE

TURNING POINT
 
 
This is your first Turning Point card. 
After reading it, place it into the 
Game End area.
01-06a
Build 3 new supply 
centers.
00-00b
01-04b
UNRATIONED EVENT
Remove all Plague cubes from 
1 location on the grid.
Destroy this card after use.
Decontamination Kit
P1-02b
Move 3 Supply cubes from 
 one haven into one or more 
 locations on the grid.
Dispersal
01-09b
Open the following door:
Well Stocked:
If there are 2 or more Supply cubes in this city when 
this card is drawn, do not remove any Supply cubes.
Infrastructure:
This card counts as 3 cards of 
its color for the Build Supply 
Center action.
OBJECTIVES
In each game, you will need to 
complete one or more objectives to 
win. The number needed is shown on 
the board for that month.
At least one objective will be mandatory. Mandatory 
objectives must be completed in order to win. You 
do not need to decide which other objectives you will 
accomplish at the beginning of any game; you may wait 
to see how the game unfolds. 
Unless you are instructed to destroy an objective, it will 
be available to complete month after month (even if you 
completed it in an earlier month).
THE DOSSIERS
As you play, you will find cards that 
have dossier numbers or letters on 
them. When you do, open up – and 
tear off using the precut tab – the 
dossier doors matching the numbers or 
letters on the card. 
THE PACKAGES
The game will instruct you as to when to open these.
THE RESERVE
The reserve is the area in the game box where you keep 
cards, stickers, and pieces that aren’t an active part of 
the game but might be needed during or after a game.
RATIONED AND 
UNRATIONED EVENTS
At the beginning of each game, you will 
choose and add Rationed Event cards to 
the Player deck equal to your rationing 
level. Your rationing level is 4 in the 
prologue and at the start of January, 
but will go up and down from game to 
game. The minimum rationing level is 0 
and the maximum is 10. 
There are also Unrationed Event cards that you will 
discover later. These are always included in the Player 
deck, regardless of rationing level, until they are used, 
at which point they are destroyed.
TRACKING TOKENS
Use these tokens to track your progress toward 
completing objectives each game.
CARD STICKERS 
Some cards in the game have 
spaces for an improvement. 
These improvements are 
put on as part of the Game 
End Production step. Each 
card can have only 1 improvement, and you can put 
an improvement only on a card that has a space for 
it. Note that Infection card improvements and City 
card improvements have a different shape to help you 
remember which goes on which card.
TURNING POINT CARDS
All Turning Point cards you find are taken 
from the reserve and placed in the Game 
End area at the start of each game. These 
are checked at the end of the game to 
see if their requirement has been met. If 
so, follow the instructions on the card. If 
not, return the card to the reserve until the next game. 
There are no turning points at the beginning of the 
campaign – they are introduced as the year unfolds.
SUPPLY CUBES
Supplies (represented by gray cubes) are all 
that stand between the world and extinction. 
Whenever an Infection card is drawn, move 
1 Supply cube from that city to the stockpile. 
If there are no Supply cubes in the city when the card is 
drawn, place a Plague cube.
PLAGUE CUBES
There is a plague (represented by green cubes) 
that has brought the world to the brink. There 
is no known cure or treatment for this plague.
SUPPLY CENTERS
Supply centers are temporary structures you build 
in a game. They are combination of mobile hospital, 
supply depot, and headquarters. Supply centers 
do not stay from game to game as the Hollow Men 
tear them down almost as fast as you put them up. 
Supply centers allow you to play Produce Supplies cards 
in that city, and at the end of a game, the population of 
cities with supply centers will increase. 
PRODUCE SUPPLY CARDS
These cards are always shuffled into the 
Player deck and help players produce a lot 
of supplies during one turn if they are at a 
haven or supply center. See Other Actions 
on page 10.
COMPONENT OVERVIEW
COMPONENT OVERVIEW

L
LOCATIONS
Cities and havens are together referred to as locations. 
Any card that specifically talks about a city cannot be 
used on a haven, and vice-versa. 
Locations close to water have an anchor symbol on 
them; those are port locations.
HAVENS
The white locations with an anchor 
symbol are called havens. At the 
beginning of your campaign, 
name the three havens on the 
board (be cool and come up with 
a name together).
POPULATION
Each location has a 
population, which is 
used to determine how 
many Supply cubes are 
placed when using a 
Produce Supplies card. 
The population of a 
location can be as low 
as 0 or as high as 8. 
RULE STICKER A
will go here
SUPPLY LINES
Although there are no supply lines at the beginning 
of the game, cities will be connected to each other 
across land by supply lines. Cities directly connected by 
a supply line are adjacent.
SEA LANES & SEA ROUTES
Locations are connected to each other in the ocean by 
sea lanes. Locations directly connected by a sea lane 
are adjacent. A series of connected sea lanes is called 
a sea route.
The board is largely empty as the world is mostly 
unknown to you. “The grid” refers to any location that 
is connected to the starting havens (i.e., a path can 
be traced along supply lines and/or sea lanes to the 
starting havens).
EXPANDING THE GRID
As you explore the world, you will expand the grid. 
Whenever you open a sticker that expands the world 
map, add that sticker to the board, aligning it using the 
latitude and longitude lines.
OBJECTIVES SECTION 
In one corner of the board is a section 
where objectives are placed. January 
will start with two objectives. 
Other objectives will be added and 
removed in future months. If you ever have more 
objectives than you can fit into this section, place some 
next to the board.
GAME END AREA
During the game, you may be instructed to put cards 
into the Game End area. At the game’s end, remove all 
cards from this area and follow the instructions on each 
of them.
INCIDENT TRACK
The Incident track lets you track how many 
times a Plague cube has been placed 
into a location. Even if a card or ability 
removes these cubes from the world, the 
Incident marker never moves backward. 
When the Incident marker reaches the end 
of the track, the players immediately lose 
the game.
SUPPLY CUBE STOCKPILE
This is where Supply cubes go so that players can keep 
track of how many are left and easily reach them. 
During the game, unless a card or effect says otherwise, 
Supply cubes are taken from and returned to the 
stockpile. When an effect instructs a player to spend 
1 or more Supply cubes, they take them from their 
Character card and return them to the stockpile. 
At the end of the game, return all Supply cubes in the 
stockpile to the reserve – they do not carry over from 
game to game.
THE GAME BOARD
THE GAME BOARD
8 7 6
4 3
RECOVERING
SURVIVING
STRUGGLING
FALLING
FORSAKEN

Characters have little experience outside the 
havens – perhaps they’ve never seen the mainland at all. 
But they will grow into something more. Players do not 
need to play the same character each game.
Before the prologue, create the five starting characters. 
As you play the campaign, you may find new characters 
that will use the other five Character cards. 
To create a new character: 
1. Take a blank Character card.
2. Choose a job and place the sticker onto the 
Job box on your Character card.
3. Choose an image sticker for your character and 
place it as your Character card’s photo.
4. Name the character and give them an age.
5. Choose one of the named havens as their home.
Do not fill in the place of death. That may come to pass 
as your characters gain exposure. As you scratch off the 
Exposure track on your Character card, you may reveal 
scars or a skull. But not now. Not yet.
CHARACTERS
CHARACTERS
We did not ask to be here. 
We do not want this responsibility.

Jacksonville
Washington
São Paulo
* * * *
* *
PORTS
Required for the Sail and 
Charter Boat actions.
Recon with any 4 yellow 
here to open Package 5.
PAUSE
DURING STEP 2 
AT THE END OF 
YOUR FIRST GAME 
IN JANUARY.
01-07a
GAME IN FEBRUARY.
00-00a
02-01a
WASHINGTON
ISTANBUL
JACKSONVILLE
PREPARE THE PLAYER 
DECK AND DEAL CARDS
6a. As a group, decide which Rationed 
Event cards to add to the Player deck. 
The Player deck can have as many Rationed 
Event cards as your current rationing level 
(4 in the prologue and start of January). 
In future games you may find rationed and 
unrationed events. Unrationed events always go into 
the deck and don’t count toward rationing.
SET UP THE BOARD
Put as many Supply cubes into the stockpile as the 
number shown on the supply track for that month 
(on the board right under objectives). Put any extra 
Supply cubes into the reserve, out of play.
RULE STICKER B
Look through the reserve and collect any cards from 
previous games that go onto the board. This will 
include objectives and turning points. Place turning 
points into the Game End area. (There are no turning 
points in the prologue or at the start of January.) 
Place Objective cards into the Objectives area.
RULE STICKER C
Place the Plague cubes onto their location 
on the board. Place the Incident marker on 
the “0” space of the Incident track. Place 
the Infection Rate marker on the left-most 
“2” space of the Infection Rate track. 
Put a Tracking token on the “0” space of 
any tracks on Objective cards.
In future games, there may be other 
pieces to place.
Place the supply centers nearby.
SUPPLY THE GRID
Put all Supply cubes from the stockpile onto 
the locations of the grid. You can place any number 
of Supply cubes (including zero) on each location. 
As the grid grows, there might not be enough 
supplies in the stockpile to fill all locations. Players will 
have to decide which locations are in short supply. 
Incident 
Supply
track
Tracking 
token
Incident 
track
Stockpile
Plague cubes
 RULE STICKER D will replace this rule.
READ THE LEGACY DECK
Read the Legacy deck, one card at 
a time, until you get to a PAUSE or 
STOP card. This will give you your 
priorities for the month and any new 
rules or materials. A PAUSE card means 
to stop drawing until the current game is 
completed. A STOP card means you don’t 
draw from the deck until the start of the next 
game month.
INFECT THE GRID
Shuffle the Infection cards and flip over 9 of 
them. Move 1 Supply cube from the city 
matching each flipped card back to the 
stockpile. If a card is flipped over and there 
are no Supply cubes in the city, instead place 
a Plague cube and move the Incident marker 
forward 1 space on the Incident track. Place 
flipped cards into the Infection discard pile.
Move 1 or 2 copies of a specific 
 city in the Infection discard pile 
to the Game End area.
You may play this card between 
step 2 and step 3 of  an epidemic.
Resilient Population
AVALON
SETUP
SETUP

Tripoli
Cairo
E
1. Adjust population
2. Check Legacy deck
3. Resolve Game End cards
4. Spend production units
CITIES ON 
PRODUCTION 
UNITS
1–10
11–16
17–24
25–33
34–42
43+
+1 if you won the game
Recon with 5 unique yellow 
ACTIONS (CONT.)
RECON
Discard cards at an eligible location to explore the world.
The location must contain a supply center.
Take 1 Supply cube from the stockpile and put it onto your Character card.
Put any number of Supply cubes from your Character card 
into your current location.
Take any number of Supply cubes from your location and put them 
onto your Character card.
Give Supply cubes to another player in your location or take Supply cubes 
from that player (with permission).
Do any number of free actions during the “Do Actions” step of your turn.
Move to an adjacent location connected by a line.
Discard a card to move to the city named on the card, 
Discard the card that matches your current city to move to any location, 
Either: give a card that matches the city you are in to another player, 
or take that card from another player. 
Both of you must be in the city matching the card.
Discard 5 cards matching your city’s color to build a supply center there.
ACTIONS
ADD EPIDEMICS TO 
THE PLAYER DECK
Divide the remaining Player deck into 5 face down 
piles, as equal in size as possible. Shuffle 1 Epidemic 
card into each pile. Stack these piles to form the Player 
deck, placing smaller piles at the bottom.
6b. Shuffle these Event cards, all Produce Supplies 
cards, and the City cards together. Deal cards to 
each player according to the number of players: 
	
# of players 	
Cards
2 players	
3 players	
4 players	
 
Players keep their hands face up at all times.
SELECT CHARACTERS
Each player selects a character and player color and 
takes the corresponding pawn and Reference cards. 
Place each pawn at their home. If there aren’t enough 
characters for all players, some players must play a 
haven worker.
BEGIN PLAY
Take all the pawns and randomly select one. 
That player goes first and play proceeds clockwise.
 
EACH PLAYER TURN IS DIVIDED INTO 4 STEPS:
1.	 Check for exposure.
2.	 Do 4 actions.
3.	 Draw 2 Player cards.
4.	 Infect cities.
After a player is done infecting cities, the turn ends 
and the player on their left goes next.
Players should freely give each other advice. 
Let everyone offer opinions and ideas. However, 
the player whose turn it is decides what to do.
Your hand can have City, Produce Supplies, and 
Event cards in it. City cards are used in some 
actions, Produce Supplies cards are used to bring 
supplies from the stockpile to havens and supply 
centers, and Event cards can be played at any time.
deck
discard pile
 Rate track
Infection Rate 
Game End
 RULE STICKER E
will give you step 5 for set up.
Skip this step for now.
Player deck
Player discard pile

CHECK FOR EXPOSURE
If you start your turn in a location with 1 or more Plague 
cubes, gain an exposure (see Exposure, Scars, and 
Death on page 16). 
 
ATH
RULE STICKER F
 
DO 4 ACTIONS
After checking for exposure, you may do up to 4 actions 
and an unlimited number of free actions each turn.
Select any combination of the actions listed below. 
You may do the same action several times, each time 
counting as 1 action (unless it’s a free action). Your 
character’s job and abilities may change how an action is 
done. Some actions involve discarding a card from your 
hand; all these discards go to the Player discard pile.
Free actions do not count toward your 4 actions 
per turn. Free actions must be done during the 
“Do 4 actions” step of your turn either before, between, 
or after any other actions that you take. You must 
complete an action before starting another action.
MOVEMENT ACTIONS 
RULE STICKER G
Move to an adjacent location connected 
by a line.
Discard a card to move to the city named on 
the card, provided you can trace a sea route 
to it. (Both locations will have an anchor symbol.) 
Discard the City card that matches your current 
city to move to any location, provided you 
can trace a sea route to it. (Both locations will have an 
anchor symbol.) 
 You cannot do the Sail and Charter Boat actions 
over land. We hope you understand why.
RULE STICKER H
OTHER ACTIONS
Take 1 Supply cube from the stockpile and put 
it onto your Character card. You can hold any 
number of Supply cubes.
Discard a Produce Supplies card while in a 
haven or supply center to do the Produce 
Supplies action.
If you use its “Local Production” ability, 
fill your current haven or supply center to 
its population with Supply cubes. If the 
location already has Supply cubes equal to 
or above its population, do not place more.
If you use its “System-Wide Production” ability, fill 
all havens and supply centers on the grid to their 
population, then check a box on the card (you must still 
be in a haven or supply center). When the last check box 
is filled on the card, destroy the card.
If there aren’t enough Supply cubes in the stockpile to 
fill locations to their populations, put as many as you can 
in any order you like.
Put as many Supply cubes as you like from your 
Character card into your location. 
You can do this action in two ways:
Give a City card that matches the city you are 
in to another player, or take a City card that matches 
the city you are in from another player. 
The other player must also be in the city with you. Both 
of you need to agree to do this. 
If the player who gets the card now has more than their 
hand limit (usually 7 cards), that player must immediately 
discard a card or play an Event card.
Discard 5 cards matching your current city’s 
color. Take a supply center and place it into 
that city. It will last for the rest of the game. If there 
are no more available, move an existing supply center 
to your location instead. Each city can have only 
1 supply center.

Adele
Laborer: You may do the Build Supply Center 
action with 1 fewer card if you spend 2 Supply cubes 
from your Character card.
A B
Recon with
cards from 
here to open
Reco
card
here
Is
A B C
AVALON
 
These actions must be taken during the “Do Actions” 
step but do not count toward your 4 actions for the 
turn. Free actions cannot be used to interrupt other 
actions. For example, you cannot do the Pick Up 
Supplies action on the haven in the Mediterranean 
while using the Sail action to get from London to Cairo.
Take as many Supply cubes as you like 
from your location and put them onto your 
Character card.
Give as many Supply cubes as you like to 
a player in your location or take as many 
Supply cubes as you like from that player 
(with their permission). 
RULE STICKER I
RECON (NOT IN PROLOGUE)
When you Recon, you are exploring some of 
the lost world in an attempt to learn what 
happened and how it can help you with your objectives.
Each location where you can Recon shows you what 
you must discard in order to recon from there. In most 
cases you need to recon from a supply center. Read each 
recon description to see what you need:
• Unless otherwise stated, there must be a supply 
center ( 
  ) in that city.
• You need to discard City cards from your hand 
matching those on the route leaving the city.
• If the cards on the route have an * symbol (e.g., 
), 
the cards can be of any cities – only the color matters. 
 
 
 
* * *
• If the cards have letters on them (e.g., 
 ), then each 
card discarded of that color must be a unique city. 
 
 
 
 
• When you successfully do the Recon action, 
open the package number as shown on the route. 
It is Anna’s turn and she wishes to play her Produce Supplies card and deliver some supplies. Since she is 
already in a haven, she can set her plan in motion right away.
4. Then she does the Sail action, discarding the London card 
from her hand to move to London.
3. She does the Deliver Supplies action there and puts 
2 cubes on Lagos (she could have delivered a different 
number of cubes instead).
2. Anna does the Drive/Ferry action to move her pawn to Lagos.
1. She first plays a Produce Supplies card for its Local Production ability at the 
empty haven where she is. Anna takes 3 Supply cubes from the stockpile 
(the haven’s population limit) and fills her haven with them. (She does not 
check a box on the card since she played it for Local Production.)
Free. She picks up all 3 cubes (she could have picked up fewer cubes) with 
the Pick Up Supplies free action and puts them onto her Character card.
Free. Anna transfers supplies for free to Adele, who is also in London, 
with the Transfer Supplies free action.
Example:
Example:

NEW ACTIONS 
RULE STICKER J
RULE STICKER K
RULE STICKER L
RULE STICKER M 
RULE STICKER N
RULE STICKER O
RULE STICKER P
RULE STICKER Q

DRAW CARDS
DRAW CARDS
RULE STICKER R 
 will replace this rule.
After doing 4 actions, draw the top 2 cards together 
from the Player deck. 
If, as you are about to draw, there are fewer 
than 2 cards left in the Player deck, the game 
ends and your team has lost! (Do not reshuffle 
the discard pile to form a new deck.)
If you are over your hand limit (usually 7 cards), 
immediately discard cards or play Event cards until 
you are at your hand limit.
EPIDEMIC CARDS
If your draws include any 
Epidemic cards, do not add 
them to your hand (and do not 
draw replacement cards for 
them). Instead, immediately do 
the following in order:
1. Increase: Move the Infection 
Rate marker forward 1 space 
on the Infection Rate track 
(If the marker is already at 5, 
it remains at 5.)
2. Infect: Draw the bottom card from the 
Infection deck. Remove all the Supply cubes 
from that city and put them in the stockpile. 
(Do not add Plague cubes if the city has no 
Supply cubes.) 
Discard this card to the Infection discard pile.
 
3. Intensify: Shuffle just the cards in the 
Infection discard pile and place them on top of the 
Infection deck. 
Remember to draw from the bottom of the Infection 
deck and to then shuffle only the Infection discard pile, 
placing it on top of the existing Infection deck.
It is rare but possible to draw 2 Epidemic cards at once. 
In this case, do all the steps above once and then again.
After resolving any Epidemic cards, 
discard them to the Player discard pile.
EVENT CARDS
Playing an Event card is not an action. The player who 
plays an Event card decides how it is used. Event cards 
can be played at any time, except in between drawing 
and resolving a card. For example, you cannot draw an 
Infection card, see that you don’t like it, and then choose 
to play One Quiet Night. 
Once played, Rationed Event cards are discarded to 
the Player discard pile, while Unrationed Event cards 
are destroyed.
HAND LIMIT
If you ever have more cards than your hand limit (after 
first resolving any Epidemic cards you may have drawn), 
discard cards or play Event cards until you are at your 
hand limit. The standard hand limit is 7 cards.

Recon with 5 unique yel
cards from a supply cen
OUTBREAKS
When an outbreak occurs, remove 1 Supply cube from 
every location adjacent to the city. If the connected 
location does not have a Supply cube, place 1 Plague 
cube instead. Move the Incident marker forward 1 space 
on the Incident track for each Plague cube placed.
If any connecting location already has 3 Plague cubes, 
do not place a 4th cube in those cities. Instead, in each of 
them, a chain reaction outbreak occurs after the current 
outbreak is done.
When a chain reaction outbreak occurs, remove Supply 
cubes or place Plague cubes as above, except do not 
add a Plague cube to locations that have already had 
an outbreak (or a chain reaction outbreak) as part of 
resolving the current Infection card. Move the Incident 
marker forward 1 space for each Plague cube placed. 
TURN END
After infecting cities and discarding Infection cards, your 
turn is over. The player on your left begins their turn. 
Flip over as many Infection cards from the top of the 
Infection deck as the current infection rate. This number 
is below the space of the Infection Rate track that has 
the Infection Rate marker. Flip these cards over one at a 
time, infecting the city named on each card.
To infect a city, remove 1 Supply cube from it and return 
it to the stockpile. If the city has no Supply cubes, 
instead place a Plague cube and record the incident (see 
Incidents, below). If the city already has 3 Plague cubes, 
do not place a 4th cube. Instead, an outbreak of the 
plague occurs in the city (see Outbreaks, next column). 
Discard this card to the Infection discard pile. 
RULE STICKER S
RULE STICKER T
 
In the rare case you get through the entire Infection 
deck, reshuffle it and move the Infection Rate marker 
forward 1 space on the Infection Rate track. If this 
causes the rate to change during the “Infect” step, use 
the old rate when determining how many cards to draw.
INCIDENTS
An incident happens whenever a Plague 
cube is placed into a location. Move the 
Incident marker forward 1 space on the 
Incident track. 
If the Incident marker reaches the 
last space (skull), the game ends 
and the players lose.
Remember that players who start a turn in 
a location with Plague cubes get exposed. 
(See Exposure, Scars, and Death on 
page 7.)
After having drawn her 2 cards, Anna proceeds 
to the “Infect” step.
The current infection rate is 3, so Anna flips over the top 
3 Infection cards: Lagos, Lagos, London.
She first removes 2 Supply cubes from Lagos and 
returns them to the stockpile.
Since there are no Supply cubes in London, she must 
add a Plague cube there and move the Incident marker 
forward 1 space. She then discards the flipped Infection cards. 
At the start of her next turn, if Anna’s pawn is still in London 
with a Plague cube, she will get an exposure. 
INFECTIONS
INFECTIONS

Month
Rationing
Date 
Played
Players and Characters
Win or Lose?
Cities on 
the Grid
Nov. 18
Laura/Anna, Alice/Adele, Ollie/Newt
W
Prologue
You win as soon as you complete the necessary number 
of objectives (which must include all mandatory 
objectives) or you trigger a losing condition. The game 
ends immediately, even if it is the middle of a player’s 
turn or a series of outbreaks. You cannot finish out your 
turn after you win or lose, even if you would like to.
There are multiple ways for the game to end in a loss:
• Immediately when the Incident marker reaches 
the last space of the Incident track.
• If a player cannot draw 2 player cards after 
their actions.
RULE STICKER U
Win or lose, first return all City and Infection cards in 
players’ hands and the discard piles to their respective 
decks. Then, there is a series of Game End steps that 
must be followed at the end of each game to see 
how the just-played game changed the world, your 
characters, and the grid. 
The Game End steps are covered in detail on the 
last page of this manual. We recommend reading 
them after finishing your first prologue game 
to get an idea of how each game impacts the 
following games in the campaign.
TRACKING YOUR 
CAMPAIGN 
Use the game calendar on page 18 to record your 
progress, wins and losses, players involved, your current 
rationing level, and the size of the grid. Page 19 will help 
you track which cities are part of the the grid.
Laura and her friends completed their first game (the Prologue) 
and filled in the corresponding row of the game calendar.

Xenophobia: You need 1 extra City card (of the same 
color) to do the Recon action.
Xenophobia: You need 1 extra City card (of the same 
color) to do the Recon action.
It’s a dangerous world out there and characters will gain 
exposures. (One way is to start a turn in a location with 
a Plague cube. See page 10.)
When a character gains an exposure, scratch off the next 
box on the character’s exposure track (starting at the 
leftmost box). If there is nothing under the box, there is 
no immediate effect.
SCARS
If the box that was just scratched off has a 
, 
it means the character has developed a scar. Choose 
any of the available scars and place it onto a slot on the 
Character card. This can be an empty slot, or a slot with 
a job or a character ability. You cannot cover a scar with 
another scar.
DEATH
If the box that was just scratched off has a 
, 
the character has died from the plague. Write down 
the location of the character’s death on the sheet. That 
character cannot be played in this or any future game.
If your character dies, discard all cards you have in hand 
and return any Supply cubes on the Character card to 
the stockpile. You lose any remaining actions, but must 
resolve the rest of your turn (i.e., do the “Draw Player 
cards” and “Infect” steps as usual).
Select a different character from those available and 
place your pawn at that character’s home. If there are 
no more characters available, use a haven worker for 
the rest of this game, placing your pawn at any haven 
connected to the grid.
HAVEN WORKERS
The rules for haven workers are on their cards.
EXPOSURE, SCARS, AND DEATH
EXPOSURE, SCARS, AND DEATH
At the beginning of his turn, Newt finds himself in 
New York with 2 Plague cubes. He gains an exposure 
(even though there are 2 Plague cubes).
He scratches the next box on his Exposure track and 
reveals a scar.
He chooses a scar from those available and puts it on 
an available space on his Character card.

CREDITS
Game design: Matt Leacock and Rob Daviau
Illustrations: Chris Quilliams and Atha Kanaani
Graphic design: Philippe Guérin, Karla Ron, Marie-Elaine Bérubé, and Marie-Eve Joly
Editing: Jean-François Gagné and Steven Kimball
Playtesters: Martha Amezcua, Chris Aylott, Katherine Aylott, Alan Tun-Wei Bach, Cory Banks, Mike Bretzlaff, Jasmine Butler-Davis, Pete Butler-Davis, 
Danny Calderon, Kasey Cargill, Ryan Corder, Lindsay Daviau, Melissa DeMorris, Court Dimon, Jeroen Doumen, Bianca van Duijl, Sarah Edwards, 
Daniel Egnor, Michelle Ell, Robert Ell, Kim Farrell, Nathan Fluegel, Jonathan Fromm, Rachel Gay, Mark Goetz, Vincent Grasso, Sarah Graybill, 
Chris Grim, Beth Heile, David Helber, Shelby Hemker, Patrick Hillier, Amanda Houts, Nicole Hoye, Trisha Huang, Wei-Hwa Huang, Aeos James, 
Richard Jeffers, Brian Jewkes, Sasha Johnson-Freyd, Nicholas Kent, David Kloba, Grace Kloba, John Knoerzer, Eva Ko, Donna Leacock, Martin Lieser, 
David Lipman, Dan Luxenberg, Paul Madden, Matt Manis, Joshua Martin, Christina Martins, Chris Matthew, Tony McRee, Chris Mitsinikos, 
Owen Mitsinikos, Nora Montaño, Mabelene Ng, David Nolin, Kevin O’Hare, Erik Oliver, Sacha-Mikhail Roberts, Ben Rosset, Colby Sellers, 
Hannah Shen, David Short, Bill Shube, Sarah Shube, Jenn Skahan, John Shulters, Paul Stefko, Mark Swanson, Colin Thom, David Tome, Ana Ulin, 
Nickolaus Wing, Chris Kit Yona, Lola Yona, Rob Zacny, Ian Zang, Michelle Zentis.
Special thanks: John Knoerzer, Beth Heile, Wei-Hwa Huang, and Colin Thom.
Z-Man Games
1995 West County Road B2 
Roseville MN 55113 USA
(651)-639-1905
info@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com 
 Follow Pandemic The Board game on 
USING ABILITIES
You must be able to use all of an ability in order to 
activate it. This is true whether it is on a card or a 
character. For example, if you had a card that let you 
add supplies to the board and there were no supplies 
in the stockpile, you couldn’t play that card to put 
0 supplies on to the board just to be able to discard 
that card. 
COMMONLY 
OVERLOOKED RULES
• You do not draw a replacement card after drawing 
an Epidemic card.
• On your turn, with the Share Knowledge action, you 
may take a card from another player if you are both in 
the city that matches the card.
• Your hand limit applies at all times.
• Locations can contain any number of Supply cubes 
(The population of a location does affect how many 
Supply cubes can be added with the Produce Supplies 
action, however.)
TAKING NOTES AND 
LOOKING AT CARDS
There is an element of discovery in this game – players 
will explore the world and find new information that 
they may want to track. It is perfectly acceptable to take 
notes as you go.
Also, all cards in the reserve, the Infection discard pile, 
and the Player discard pile may be looked at by players 
at any time. Cards in the Player deck and Infection deck 
cannot be looked at unless an ability allows it.
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE 
MESS UP A RULE SINCE 
WE CAN’T GO BACK?
In most cases, it won’t matter. A little rule confusion 
here or there, or a card left out of a deck, or something 
forgotten will not greatly affect your game. Just note it 
and move on.
In some cases a missing or confused rule will have 
resulted in a whole game being too easy or too hard. In 
this case, the group should decide whether to increase 
their rationing level for the next game (if you accidentally 
made a game too hard) or reduce their rationing for the 
next game (if you made a game too easy).
CLARIFICATIONS
CLARIFICATIONS
© 2017 Z-Man Games, All Rights Reserved. Pandemic, Z-Man Games, and the 
Z-Man logo are TM of Z-Man Games. Z-Man Games is a division of Asmodee North 
America, Inc. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. 
NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.

Month
Rationing
Date 
Played
Players and Characters
Win or Lose?
Cities on 
the Grid
Prologue
If you win, advance to the next month and decrease your rationing by 2. 
If you lose the first half of the month, play the second half of the month and increase your rationing by 2. 
If you lose in the second half of the month, increase your rationing by 2, then proceed to the next month. 
Rationing cannot go over 10 or below 0. 
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
GAME CALENDAR
GAME CALENDAR

City Name
On the Grid?
1. New York
2. Washington
3. Jacksonville
4. São Paulo
5. London
6. Istanbul
7. Tripoli
8. Cairo
9. Lagos
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20. 
21.
22.
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
City Name
On the Grid?
27.
28.
29.
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46. 
47.
48.
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
CITIES OF THE KNOWN WORLD
CITIES OF THE KNOWN WORLD

Foundations:
This card counts as 2 cards of 
its color for the Build Supply 
Center action.
PAUSE
DURING STEP 2 
AT THE END OF 
YOUR FIRST GAME 
IN JANUARY.
01-07a
Lockdown:
If this card is in the Infection discard pile, any player 
 may discard a Player card to destroy this card at 
any time.
HOTO
Record Keeper: Increase your hand limit by 1 card.
INFECTION CARD 
IMPROVEMENTS 
Spend the cost next to an Infection 
improvement sticker to add it to 
an Infection card with an available 
slot. That city must be connected to 
the grid and each slot can have only 1 sticker.
Infection improvements are in effect during: 
• Game set up
• The Infect step during an Epidemic 
• The Infect step at the end of every player turn
POPULATION
Spend 1 production unit to increase 
the population of any non-forsaken 
location by 1. If the location is a forsaken 
city then increasing it back to 1 costs 
2 production units. 
Take the sticker and place it over the location’s current 
population. You can spend multiple production units 
to increase the population by more than one. If you do 
so, apply the final population sticker to the location; 
do not place all the stickers in between the old level 
and the new one. If you ever run out of population 
stickers, record the population near the city with a pen 
or pencil, but remember the population cannot go 
above 8.
IF YOU WON THE GAME
• Start your next game at the beginning of the 
next month.
• Your rationing level is dropped by 2 (minimum of 0) 
as you save more resources for future troubles.
• Record your new rationing level on the calendar.
IF YOU LOST THE GAME
• If this is the first time the month has been played, 
you must try the month again. If it was your second 
attempt at the month, move on to the next month 
for your next game.
• Your rationing level is increased by 2 (maximum 
of 10) as you realize you need to dig a little deeper.
• Record your new rationing level on the calendar.
Clear the board of all game pieces (but not stickers, 
those are permanent). These all reset for the start of 
the next game.
Set up future games as described on pages 8 and 9.
 
GAME END STEPS
GAME END STEPS
1. ADJUST POPULATION 
RULE STICKER V will 
give you step a. Skip it for now.
 b. For each location that has at least 1 Plague cube, 
decrease that location’s population by 1. It only 
ever goes down by 1, even if there are 2 or 
3 Plague cubes in it.
RULE STICKER W will 
give you step c. Skip it for now.
 d. For each city that has a supply center, increase that 
city’s population by 1.
If a location’s population would decrease and increase 
by 1, its population stays the same.
2. CHECK THE LEGACY DECK 
You may be instructed to draw more cards if 
there is a PAUSE card at the top of the deck.
3. RESOLVE CARDS IN 
THE GAME END AREA
 a. If there are any Infection cards in this area, 
add them to the Infection deck.
 b. Review all Turning Point cards in the Game End 
area to see if they triggered. Resolve these cards in 
numerical order from low to high.
4. SPEND PRODUCTION UNITS
Win or lose, you choose upgrades at the end of each 
game based on the number of cities on the grid. 
Calculate the number of cities on the grid and look at 
the table in the Game End area to see how many units 
you get to spend. You get an additional +1 unit if you 
won the game. Any unused units are lost; do not carry 
them over from game to game.
CHARACTER ABILITIES
Spend the cost next to an ability to 
add it to a created character, even 
one who did not play in the most recent game. Use any 
empty slot on the Character card. You cannot place an 
ability over a scar, a job, or another ability.
CITY CARD IMPROVEMENTS 
Spend the cost next to a City 
improvement sticker to add it to 
a City card with an available slot. 
That city must be connected to the grid 
and each slot can have only 1 sticker.