The world is falling apart. Four diseases are sweeping the planet and your team is on the front lines. 
Worse yet, one disease has shown signs that it may become resistant to any treatment.
Pandemic Legacy is a cooperative game where all players must work together to develop cures and prevent disease outbreaks, 
before 4 diseases contaminate humanity. You will all win or lose together.
Can you survive the year and save humanity?
STARTING CONTENTS
5 Character 
cards
61 Player cards
(48 City cards, 5 Epidemic cards, 8 Event cards)
62 Legacy cards
96 Disease cubes
24 in 4 colors
4 Cure markers
1 Board
1 Package box with 8 numbered packages
1 Infection rate 
marker
1 Outbreaks 
marker
5 Dossiers and 
1 Sticker sheet
4 Civilian cards
1 Reminder token
6 Research stations
Eradication 
“
” side
48 Infection cards
4 Pawns
You will need a pen. It is not included in this box.
by Matt Leacock and Rob Daviau
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
1.Do 4 actions
2. Draw 2 cards 
• Resolve any epidemics 
• Discard to 7 cards
3.Infect cities
• No effect.
• No Direct Flights or Charter Flights in or out.
• Existing research stations destroyed.
• No new research stations can be built there.
• Discard 1 card of the city’s color to 
Drive/Ferry into this city.
• Discard 1 more card (2 total) of the city’s 
color to Drive/Ferry into this city.
UNSTABLE
RIOTING
COLLAPSING
FALLEN
2-3
EUROPE
ASIA
SOUTH 
PACIFIC
RIM
SAN FRANCISCO
MONTRÉAL
NEW YORK
MEXICO CITY
SANTIAGO
BUENOS AIRES
SãO PAULO
LAGOS
KINSHASA
JOHANNESBURG
MADRID
LONDON
MILAN
ST. PETERSBURG
KARACHI
DELHI
KOLKATA
JAKARTA
TAIPEI
HONG 
KONG
SHANGHAI
BEIJING
OSAKA
MIAMI
BOGOTá
HOW DO YOU PLAY A LEGACY GAME?
Unlike most games, which fully reset every time you play, Pandemic 
Legacy carries some elements forward from one game to the next. 
Decisions you make in game 1 will be there in game 2, 3, and every game 
played with your copy of the game. Different groups will make different 
decisions and will have a different experience. What results is a game 
unique to the group that plays it.
Sometimes you will write on parts of the game. Sometimes you will put 
stickers on cards or the board. Sometimes you will even destroy (tear up) 
a card. These changes are permanent.
Also, at the end of each game, the group will make two Game End 
Upgrades to prepare for future games. You will put stickers on the board, 
cards, and character.
As you play, you will learn about other ways the game will change.
Also, some elements of play are hidden and sealed off before your very 
first game. As you play, you will find instructions that tell you when 
to open these packages. Do not open the packages in the box until 
you receive instructions to do so. The dossiers also contain hidden 
information that will be revealed as you play. 
Some rules, labeled A through Y, are missing throughout this rulebook. 
As you play, you will gain these missing rules and stick them into the 
rulebook. From that point on, the rules will be permanently changed.
IF YOU’VE NEVER PLAYED PANDEMIC…
We recommend that you play a few games without any of the special 
“Legacy” rules to get a feel for the decisions you will have to make.
Read this rulebook then play without using the following rules:
• Game Months, Legacy Deck, Dossiers
• Objectives, Funding, Game Calendar, Panic Level
• Scars and Lost Characters
• Game End Upgrades
The object of these warm-up games is to cure four diseases before any of 
the game-losing conditions are triggered (noted on page 14 of these rules). 
You should play at least two games this way to get a feel for the game before 
adding the additional rules.
IF YOU HAVE PLAYED PANDEMIC…
You will see that game 1 of Pandemic Legacy plays like Pandemic with a 
few changes, explained in the next few pages.
WHAT STAYS AND WHAT GETS RESET?
Writing on the board, putting stickers on the board or on cards, and 
possibly tearing up or destroying components are permanent changes. 
In all other ways, the game resets for the start of each game. The pieces 
on the board, cards in hand, outbreaks, etc. all start fresh.
GAME MONTHS
Pandemic Legacy is broken into 12 months, starting with January. 
If your group succeeds in a month, you move on to play the next month. If 
you fail, you get one more chance to succeed in the current month. Start 
a new game with the current set of rules and objectives for the month you 
just lost. If you lose again, you must move on to the next month for your 
next game.
THE LEGACY DECK
The Legacy Deck contains cards that will 
describe what happens over the course of the 
game’s 12 months. It is arranged in a specific 
order – do not look through or shuffle these cards. 
At the start of a game, draw the cards and read them 
one at a time, until you get to a card that says STOP 
on the back. This card will tell you when to continue 
drawing from the deck, which might be mid-game, 
at the end of a game, or at the start of the next month. The Legacy Deck is 
a one-way trip. Even if you repeat a month, do not put Legacy cards back. 
The tray was designed with two spaces for used Legacy cards: one for the 
used cards, the other for cards that will be used in future games.
If the Legacy Deck becomes scattered, have someone who is not playing 
the game put the cards back in order using the numbers in the corner of 
each card. Shown to the right is the first Legacy Deck card (LD 01 B). 
To ensure this does not happen, once you’ve 
removed it from its packaging, leave the Legacy Deck 
in the storing tray.
THE DOSSIERS
The five dossiers contain the stickers that 
will go onto the game. As you go through 
the Legacy Deck, you will come across 
cards that have dossier numbers or letters 
on them. When you do, open up – and tear 
off using the precut corner – the dossier 
doors matching the numbers (or letters) 
on the card, one at a time, resolving each 
one before opening the next. Some of 
these dossier doors will contain one-time 
stickers. Others will create a card that will 
be used from time to time in future games.
THE PACKAGES
There are eight packages in the game. As you play through the game, 
yellow boxes will instruct you to open specific packages. 
Important: Before your very first game, place the Open Package 8 sticker 
on door 8 of the package box, in the frame designed for it.
u set up 
ame.
4 Reference cards
(one per player color)
SERVICE RECORD
Month
Win?
Month
Win?
SCIENTIST
scar 1
scar 2
IRAQ
VIETNAM
HO CHI MINH CITY
Do not draw, reveal, look at, 
handle, or otherwise disturb 
these cards until instructed.
Draw this card 
and read the other side 
just before you set up 
your first game.
BUILD A STRUCTURE
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to place 
a structure there.
DISCOVER A CURE
At any research station, discard 5 City cards of the same disease color to 
cure that disease.
SHARE KNOWLEDGE
Either: give the card that matches the city you are in to another player, or 
take that card from another player. The other player must also be in the city 
with you.
TREAT DISEASE
Remove 1 disease cube from the city you are in. If this color is cured, remove 
all cubes of that color from the city.
DRIVE / FERRY
Move to a city connected by a white line.
SHUTTLE FLIGHT
Move from a city with a research station to any other city that has a 
research station.
CHARTER FLIGHT
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to move to 
any city.
DIRECT FLIGHT
ACTIONS
Play any time. Not an action.
FUNDED EVENT
Skip the next Infect Cities step 
(do not flip over any 
Infection cards).
ONE QUIET NIGHT
4,887,000 
4,500/KM2
15,512,000 
3,500/KM2
575,000 
2,800/KM2
GERMANY
GERMANY
20,767,000 
14,400/KM2
Play any time. Not an action.
FUNDED EVENT
Remove 2 disease cubes 
from the board.
REMOTE TREATMENT
Do not draw, reveal, look at, 
handle, or otherwise disturb 
these cards until instructed.
Draw this card 
and read the other side 
just before you set up 
your first game.
C
follow.
As a game end upgrade, you may add a positive mutation sticker to a disease you eradicated 
during your just-played game. Positive mutations must be added in order (i.e., you can’t add a 
level 4 mutation before first having the level 1, 2, and 3 mutations).
Positive Mutations
3. Easier Agents 
 You can Discover a Cure for this 
disease with one fewer card.
3. Easier Agents 
 You can Discover a Cure for this 
disease with one fewer card.
4. Supresssed 
When you Treat, remove all 
the cubes of this color from 
your city.
Fallen Cities
Add a fallen sticker to a city when its 
panic level becomes 5. (Cover the 4.)
EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM
Remove 1 Disease cube anywhere on the board.
TRENDING DATA
Look at as many Infection cards as the current 
Infection rate. Do not change their order.
GRASSROOTS PROGRAM
The person who plays this card may discard up to 
3 City cards, removing 1 cube matching the color of 
each card, from anywhere on the board.
Before your first game...
Place next to door 8 of the package box.
OPEN IF YOU LOSE 4 GAMES 
IN A ROW.
OPEN PACKAGE 8 IF YOU LOSE 
4 GAMES IN A ROW.
Players may select 2 game end upgrades at the end of any game they complete (whether they 
win or lose) to reflect their additional experience and help from the powers that be.
As a game end upgrade, you may add a 
character upgrade to any character that was 
in the just-played game, using one of its 
upgrade slots. 
Character upgrades may be placed on top of 
other character upgrades. (Upgrades that are 
covered up are no longer in play.)
As a game end upgrade, add an unfunded 
event to any City card that does not already 
have a sticker on it. 
These cards may be played normally or as 
events and do not count toward funding.
Gain a scar if you’re in a city when it outbreaks. A character can have more than 
one of the same scar. If a character gains a scar but does not have room for it, 
that character is lost.
Destroyed Research 
Stations
As a game end upgrade, select a city with a research 
station from your just-played game and mark it with a 
starting research station sticker.
Players place research station anywhere there is a starting 
research station sticker during the setup of future games 
for free.
WHATEVER CAN GO WRONG...
GAME END UPGRADES
Grizzled. Do not gain a scar when you’re in a city 
when it outbreaks.
Flexible. For an action, discard a card to draw a 
card of the same color from the player discard pile.
Forecaster. At the start of your turn, look at the 
top 2 Infection cards.
Archive Access. Increase your hand limit by 
1 card.
Local Connections. Once per turn, you may Treat 
Disease in a city connected to your city.
Pilot. Do not discard a card when taking a Direct 
Flight. Show the card and return it to your hand.
Character Upgrades
Unfunded Events
Starting Research Stations
Rioting Cities
Unstable Cities
Add a rioting sticker to a city when 
its panic level becomes 2 or 3.
Add an unstable sticker to a city when its panic level 
becomes 1. Add in the box for panic level stickers.
Collapsing Cities
Add a collapsing sticker to a city when its 
panic level becomes 4. (Cover the 3.)
Scars
INSOMNIAC. Reduce your hand limit by 1 card.
INSOMNIAC. Reduce your hand limit by 1 card.
OVERCAUTIOUS. You need one extra card of the 
OVERCAUTIOUS. You need one extra card of the 
FEAR OF SMALL PLANES. Discard a card to use 
the Shuttle Flight action.
OBSESSED. If you end your turn with an even 
number of cards in your hand, discard 1.
REGRETFUL. Discard a card every time you leave 
a city with 3 cubes of the same color.
GERMOPHOBIC. Discard a card (if you have one) 
when you enter a city with a research station.
PTSD. Lose an action if you start your turn in 
the region where you got this scar. Region:
INTIMIDATED. Spend 1 additional action every 
time you Treat Disease in a city that is rioting.
DEMORALIZED. Discard 1 card every time an 
Epidemic card is revealed.
PTSD. Lose an action if you start your turn in 
the region where you got this scar. Region:
Use these stickers to mark when a starting 
research station is destroyed due to rioting.
OVERVIEW

OVERVIEW
At the beginning of each game, you will have an 
objective (or objectives) you need to complete 
in order to win. The number of objectives 
needed to win in a month is shown on the board 
for that month.
If an objective is marked as mandatory, it must be completed in order to 
win. You do not need to decide which other objectives you are trying to 
accomplish at the beginning of any game; you may wait to see how the 
game unfolds.
Some objectives will remain in play until the group completes them; 
others will expire at the end of a particular month. As the year unfolds, 
new objectives will be introduced. 
FUNDING
At the beginning of each game, you will add Funded Event cards (of the 
group’s choice) to the Player Deck equal to your Funding Level. Your 
Funding Level is 4 at the beginning of the first game in January but will 
go up and down from game to game. The minimum funding is 0 and the 
maximum is 10.
Use the game calendar to record your progress, wins and losses, players 
involved, and your current Funding Level. The game calendar can be 
found on the back cover of this rulebook.
REMINDER TOKEN
This token is used occasionally during games to remind players to 
remember something. 
THE GAME BOARD
REGIONS
The board is broken up into six regions, each roughly equivalent to a 
continent. These will come into play later.
OBJECTIVES SECTION
In one corner of the board is a section where objectives are placed. 
January will start with one objective. Other objectives will be added and 
removed in future months. 
DISEASE TRACKING AREA
Use this area of the board to apply changes to any of the four diseases.
Cities are panicking as these diseases take hold. Whenever an outbreak 
occurs in a city, its panic level will go up by one. The first time a city 
panics, place the level 1 sticker (unstable) in the panic level sticker box 
near the city. After that, place the next numbered sticker over the previous 
one (level 2, then level 3, etc.). The effects of panic levels are shown below. 
These effects are cumulative.
CHARACTERS
Each player has a specific character with special abilities to improve the 
team’s chances. Each player begins game 1 by creating a character. 
To create a character: Select a Character card (each one has different 
special abilities) and give your character a name.
These characters will carry through from game to game and they may 
become lost (see below). You do not have to play the same character in 
every game.
SCARS
Characters can be mentally or physically damaged over the course of play. 
When this happens, choose an available scar and add it to your character’s 
card. Characters are scarred when they are in a city that outbreaks and 
may be scarred in other ways that will be noted in future rules.
Whenever you must place a scar on a character that has no room for it, 
that character becomes lost.
LOST CHARACTERS
If you have to put a scar on your character and it has no more scar slots, 
or if your character is in a city when it falls, your character is lost. 
When your character is lost, destroy (rip up) your Character card. It 
cannot be played in this or in future games. Discard all cards you have, 
take the Civilian card matching your pawn, and place your pawn in a city 
with a research station (this may be your current city). If there are no 
research stations in play, place your pawn in Atlanta. If your character 
was lost during your turn, continue with your turn, keeping any remaining 
actions you have.
CHARACTER REFERENCE
Refer to this section after you’ve learned how to play the game for fine 
points regarding each of the characters.
• Remove all cubes of one color when doing 
the Treat Disease action.
• Automatically remove cubes of cured 
diseases from the city you are in (and 
prevent them from being placed there).
DOB: January 5
MEDIC
Dispatcher 
The Dispatcher may, as an action, either:
• move any pawn, if its owner agrees, to any city 
containing another pawn, or
• move another player’s pawn, if its owner agrees, 
as if it were his own.
The Dispatcher can only move other players’ pawns; he may not direct 
them to do other actions, such as Treat Disease.
When the Dispatcher moves a player’s pawn as if it were his own: 
• use the Dispatcher’s scars and upgrades, not those belonging to the 
character he is moving,
• cards that need to be played or discarded (for Direct and Charter Flights 
or to enter a collapsing or fallen city) come from the Dispatcher’s hand. 
A card discarded for a Charter Flight must match the city the pawn is 
moving from.
• Move another player’s pawn as if it 
were yours.
• As an action, move any pawn to a city 
with another pawn.
Get permission before moving another 
player’s pawn.
DOB: October 5
DISPATCHER
• Remove all cubes of one color when doing 
the Treat Disease action.
• Automatically remove cubes of cured 
diseases from the city you are in (and 
prevent them from being placed there).
DOB: January 5
MEDIC Medic 
The Medic removes all cubes, not 1, of the same color 
when doing the Treat Disease action.	

If a disease has been cured, he automatically removes all 
cubes of that color from a city, simply by entering it or 
being there. This does not take an action.
The Medic also prevents placing disease cubes (and outbreaks) of cured 
diseases in his location. The Medic’s automatic removal of cubes also 
happens during other players’ turns.
SCIENTIST Scientist 
The Scientist needs only 4 (not 5) City cards of the same 
• You may give any 1 of your City cards 
when you Share Knowledge. It need not 
match your city. A player who Shares 
Knowledge with you on their turn can 
take any 1 of your City cards.
DOB: November 3
RESEARCHER Researcher 
When doing the Share Knowledge action, the Researcher 
may give any City card from her hand to another player 
in the same city as her, without this card having to match 
her city. The transfer must be from her hand to the other 
player’s hand, but it can occur on either player’s turn.
• You may do up to 5 actions each turn.
DOB: February 28
GENERALIST
Upgrade 3
Upgrade 4
Generalist
The Generalist has slots for 4 different character upgrades 
and gets 5 actions per turn.
OBJECTIVE
LD 02 F
MANDATORY
• Discover cures to the 4 diseases.
Funding
Players and Characters
Win or Lose ?
 
January
March
February
April
If you win, advance to the next month and decrease your funding by 2.
If you lose the first half of the month, play the second half of the month and increase your funding by 2.
If you lose in the second half of the month, increase your funding by 2, then proceed to the next month.
Funding cannot go under 0 or over 10.
LEVEL
STATE
EFFECT
Unstable
No effect.
Rioting
Players cannot take Direct Flights or 
Charter Flights in or out. Research stations 
are destroyed and cannot be rebuilt.
Collapsing
Discard 1 card of the city’s color to enter 
this city with the Drive/Ferry action.
 
Fallen
Discard an additional card of the city’s 
color to enter this city with the Drive/Ferry 
action (for a total of 2 cards).
If your character is in a city when it falls, it 
is lost. See Lost Characters on page 5.
By placing the level 2 panic level sticker, the city’s panic 
level goes from unstable to rioting.
MO
RULE STICKER A
will go here

NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
1.Do 4 actions
2. Draw 2 cards 
• Resolve any epidemics 
• Discard to 7 cards
3.Infect cities
• No effect.
• No Direct Flights or Charter Flights in or out.
• Existing research stations destroyed.
• No new research stations can be built there.
• Discard 1 card of the city’s color to 
Drive/Ferry into this city.
• Discard 1 more card (2 total) of the city’s 
color to Drive/Ferry into this city.
UNSTABLE
RIOTING
COLLAPSING
FALLEN
2-3
EUROPE
ASIA
SOUTH 
PACIFIC
RIM
SAN FRANCISCO
MONTRÉAL
NEW YORK
MEXICO CITY
SANTIAGO
BUENOS AIRES
SãO PAULO
LAGOS
KINSHASA
JOHANNESBURG
MADRID
LONDON
MILAN
ST. PETERSBURG
KARACHI
DELHI
KOLKATA
JAKARTA
TAIPEI
HONG 
KONG
SHANGHAI
BEIJING
OSAKA
MIAMI
BOGOTá
SETUP
Read the Mission Briefing
You may notice that some steps are missing. They will be added later.
Set out the board and pieces
Place outbreaks, cure markers, 
and objectives
Select Funded Events, add them 
to the deck, and deal out Player cards
Divide the remaining player cards into 5 facedown piles, as equal in size 
as you can. Shuffle 1 Epidemic card into each pile, facedown. Stack these 
piles to form the Player Deck, placing smaller piles at the bottom.
As a group, decide which Funded Event cards are going into 
the Player Deck. The Player Deck can have as many Funded 
Event cards as your current funding level. (Your funding 
level is 4 for your first game.) Shuffle these Event cards and 
City cards together and deal cards to the players to form 
their initial hands. Give cards according to the number 
of players:
In Pandemic Legacy, players keep their hands faceup at all times.
Place the outbreaks marker on the “0” space of the 
Outbreaks Track. Place the 4 cure markers, “vial” side up, 
at the bottom of the disease tracking area. Place all 
current objectives in the objectives area.
When playing a month for the first time, draw cards off the top of the 
Legacy Deck until you reach one that says STOP. Read the mission 
briefing and integrate new cards (if any) to the game.
Put all structures (initially you’ll only have research stations) nearby. 
Separate the cubes by color into 4 supply piles. Place a research 
station in each city with a starting research station sticker. (You begin 
the game with one in Atlanta.) In future games there may be other 
pieces you place.
Outbreaks Marker
Outbreaks Track
Cure markers
Disease 
Tracking Area
Prepare the Player Deck
Have each player select a character and player color. Give them the 
corresponding Reference card and pawn. Place their pawns at any one research 
station. (Players will start their first game in Atlanta.) All the characters must 
start together. Place any remaining character cards and pawns back in the box. 
If there are no research stations, players start in the ruins of Atlanta.
Select Characters and Starting Location
Research Stations
SCIENTIST
# of players 	
Cards
2-player game	
3-player game	
4-player game	
Shuffle
Stack
Place infection rate marker 
and infect 9 cities
Winning a month will result in getting a bonus for the next month played. 
The group should use that bonus now. (You won’t have a bonus for your first game.)
Take all the pawns and blindly select one. That player goes first and play 
proceeds clockwise.
PLAY
Each player turn is divided into 3 steps:
1.	Do 4 actions.
2.	Draw 2 Player cards.
3.	Infect cities.
After a player is done infecting cities, the player on their left 
goes next.
Players should freely give each other advice. Let everyone offer 
opinions and ideas. However, the player whose turn it is decides 
what to do.
Your hand can have City and Event cards in it. City cards are used 
in some actions and Event cards can be played at any time.
Place the infection rate marker on the left-most “2” space of the Infection 
Rate Track. Shuffle the Infection cards and flip over 3 of them. 
Put 3 disease cubes of the matching color on each of these cities. 
Flip over 3 more cards: put 2 disease cubes on each of these cities. 
Flip over 3 more cards: put 1 disease cube on each of these cities. 
(You will place a total of 18 disease cubes, each matching the color of 
the city.) Place these 9 cards faceup on the Infection Discard Pile. 
The other Infection cards form the Infection Deck.
Use disease cubes matching the card colors.
Player Deck
Discard Pile
Use game winning bonus
Begin play
Infection Deck
Infection Discard Pile
Infection Rate Track
Infection 
Rate Marker
BUILD A STRUCTURE
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to place 
a structure there.
DISCOVER A CURE
At any research station, discard 5 City cards of the same disease color to 
cure that disease.
SHARE KNOWLEDGE
Either: give the card that matches the city you are in to another player, or 
take that card from another player. The other player must also be in the city 
with you.
TREAT DISEASE
Remove 1 disease cube from the city you are in. If this color is cured, remove 
all cubes of that color from the city.
VIETNAM
HO CHI MINH CITY
ALGERIA
JAPAN
PERU
4,715,000 
700/KM2
8,702,000 
21,000/KM2
DRIVE / FERRY
Move to a city connected by a white line.
SHUTTLE FLIGHT
Move from a city with a research station to any other city that has a 
research station.
CHARTER FLIGHT
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to move to 
any city.
DIRECT FLIGHT
ACTIONS
RULE STICKER B
RULE STICKER C
RULE STICKER D

ON YOUR TURN
You may do up to 4 actions each turn.
Select any combination of the actions listed below. You may do the same 
action several times, each time counting as 1 action. Your character’s 
special abilities may change how an action is done. Some actions involve 
discarding a card from your hand; all these discards go to the Player 
Discard Pile.
MOVEMENT ACTIONS
Drive / Ferry
Move to a city connected by a white line to the one 
you are in.
Direct Flight
You cannot use Direct Flight in or out of a city that is 
rioting, collapsing, or fallen.
Charter Flight
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to 
move to any city. You cannot use Charter Flight into or 
out of a city that is rioting, collapsing, or fallen.
Shuttle Flight
Move from a city with a research station to any other city 
that has a research station.
A white line that goes off the board “wraps around” 
to the other edge and connects to a city. 
Example: Sydney and Los Angeles are connected.
OTHER ACTIONS
Build a Structure
Discard the City card that matches the city you are in to 
place a structure there. In January, the only structures 
you have available are research stations; more will come 
later. Take the structure from the pile next to the board. If 
all structures of a type have been built, you may take one 
from anywhere on the board and move it to your current 
city. Each city may contain one of each type of structure. 
Treat Disease
Remove 1 disease cube from the city you are in, placing it 
in the cube supply next to the board. If this disease color 
has been cured (see Discover a Cure below), remove all 
cubes of that color from the city you are in.
If there are cubes from several cured diseases in a city, 
you must still Treat Disease once for each cured color to 
remove these cubes.
If the last cube of a cured disease is removed from the 
board, this disease is eradicated. Flip its cure marker from 
its vial side to its “
” side.
The first time you eradicate a disease, invent a name for it, 
then write its new name on the board in the disease tracking 
area. Eradicating a disease also gives you the option to 
give it a positive mutation at the end of the game as one of 
your bonuses. Positive mutations may only be applied to 
diseases that were eradicated in the just-played game.
Eradicating a disease is not needed to win. However, 
when cities of an eradicated disease are infected, no 
new disease cubes are placed there (see Epidemics and 
Infections on pages 11-12). Removing the last cube of a 
disease that is not cured has no effect.
Share Knowledge
You can do this action in two ways:
give the City card that matches the city you are in to 
another player, or
take the City card that matches the city you are in from 
another player. 
The other player must also be in the city with you. Both of 
you need to agree to do this. 
If the player who gets the card now has more than 7 cards, 
that player must immediately discard a card or play an 
Event card.
Example: If you have the Moscow 
City card and are with another player 
in Moscow, you can give this card to 
that player. Or, if another player has 
the Moscow card and you both are in 
Moscow, then you can take it from that 
player. In either case, you both must 
agree before handing the card over.
15,512,000 
3,500/KM2
Play Example: On the first turn, George does 4 actions: 
(1) Drive to Chicago (from Atlanta), (2) Drive to San Francisco, 
(3) Treat Disease in San Francisco, removing a blue disease cube 
there, and (4) Treat Disease in San Francisco again, removing a 
second blue disease cube.
George has finished the Actions step of his turn.
Play Example: Later in the game, the red disease has been cured.
 
3 red cubes remain on the board in Manila, where Anna the Scientist 
(pink pawn) begins her turn. Anna (1) Treats Disease in Manila, 
removing all 3 cubes with one action (since this disease has been 
cured). This eradicates the red disease, so the red cure marker is 
flipped over to its “ 
” side.
George, the Researcher (turquoise pawn), is in 
Chennai, having built a research station there.
George has the Cairo card in his hand and offers to 
let Anna take it from him if she can get to Chennai 
(being the Researcher, George can give any card 
from his hand). Anna discards her Manila City card 
for a (2) Charter Flight, moving her pawn to Chennai.
Anna then (3) Shares Knowledge with George, taking his 
Cairo card. Doing this gives Anna 4 black cards, which is not 
enough to cure a disease.
However, Anna is the Scientist and needs to discard only 4 cards 
of the same color to cure the corresponding disease. Anna 
(4) Discovers a Cure, discarding her 4 black cards at the Chennai 
research station. The black cure marker is moved to cover up the 
black virus on the board to show that it has been cured. Anna 
has finished the Actions part of her turn.
total) of the city’s 
o this city.
M
PA
PAC
R
NNAI
I
SE NAME
L
Discover a Cure
At any research station, discard 5 City cards of the same 
color from your hand to cure the disease of that color. 
Cover the disease icon (shown at the top of the disease 
tracking area) with the matching cure marker. If no cubes 
of this color are on the board, this disease is eradicated. 
Flip its cure marker to its eradicated side.
If no action is required to Discover a Cure (due to positive 
mutations) then a player may discard the needed cards 
from their hand immediately, even if it isn’t their turn.
When a disease is cured, its cubes remain on the board 
and new cubes can still be placed during epidemics or 
infections (see Epidemics and Infections on pages 11-12). 
However, treating this disease is now easier.
20,767,000 
14,400/KM2
14,718,000 
8,900/KM2
14,718,000 
8,900/KM2
16,910,000 
30,900/KM2
INDIA
INDIA
5,037,000 
3,400/KM2
7,419,000 
9,500/KM2
IRAN
IRAN
RULE STICKER E
RULE STICKER F

DRAW CARDS
After doing 4 actions, draw the top 2 cards together from the Player Deck.
If, as you are about to draw, there are fewer than 2 cards left in 
the Player Deck, the game ends and your team has lost! 
(Do not reshuffle the discard to form a new deck.)
EPIDEMIC CARDS
If your draws include any Epidemic cards, do not add them to your hand 
(and do not draw replacement cards for them). Instead, immediately do 
the following steps in order:
1. Increase: Move the infection rate marker forward 1 space on the 
Infection Rate Track.
2. Infect: Draw the bottom card from the Infection Deck. Unless its 
disease color has been eradicated, put 3 disease cubes of that color on 
the named city. If the city already has cubes of this color, do not add 
3 cubes to it. Instead, add just enough cubes so that it has 3 cubes of 
this color and then an outbreak of this disease occurs in the city (see 
Outbreaks on page 13). Discard this card to the Infection Discard Pile.
If you cannot place the number of cubes actually needed 
on the board, because there are not enough cubes of the 
needed color left in the supply, the game ends and your team 
has lost! This can occur during an epidemic, an outbreak, or 
infections (see Outbreaks and Infections below).
3. Intensify: Reshuffle just the cards in the Infection Discard Pile and 
place them on top of the Infection Deck.
When doing these steps, remember to draw from the 
bottom of the Infection Deck and to then reshuffle only 
the Infection Discard Pile, placing it on top of the existing 
Infection Deck.
It is rare but possible to draw 2 Epidemic cards at once. In this case, do 
all three steps above once and then again.
In this case, the second epidemic’s Infection card will be the only card 
to “reshuffle”, ending on top of the Infection Deck. An outbreak will then 
occur in this city during Infections (see Infections on page 12), unless an 
Event card is played to prevent this (see Event Cards on page 15).
After resolving any Epidemic cards, discard them. 
RULE STICKER Q
RULE STICKER L
RULE STICKER M
RULE STICKER N
RULE STICKER O
RULE STICKER G
RULE STICKER H
RULE STICKER I
RULE STICKER J
RULE STICKER K
RULE STICKER P

INFECTIONS
Flip over as many Infection cards from the top of the Infection Deck as the 
current infection rate. This number is below the space of the Infection Rate 
Track that has the infection rate marker. Flip these cards over one at a time, 
infecting the city named on each card.
To infect a city, place 1 disease cube matching its color onto the city, 
unless this disease has been eradicated. If the city already has 3 cubes 
of this color, do not place a 4th cube. Instead, an outbreak of this disease 
occurs in the city (see Outbreaks on page 13). Discard this card to the 
Infection Discard Pile.
ALGERIA
Play Example (cont.): Anna ends her turn by infecting 
cities. The current infection rate is 3, so Anna flips over the 
top 3 Infection cards: Seoul, then Paris, then Algiers. 
The red disease is eradicated, so Anna simply discards the 
Seoul card.
Paris has a blue cube on it, so Anna adds a second blue 
cube there and discards the Paris card. 
The black disease has been cured – but not eradicated 
(black cubes are still on the board) – so Anna must infect 
Algiers. Since 3 black disease cubes are already in Algiers, 
Anna does not place a 4th cube there. Instead, a black 
disease outbreak happens in Algiers.
DRID
SOUTH KOREA
FRANCE
KARAC
Play Example (cont.): A black disease outbreak 
occurs in Algiers. Anna moves the outbreaks 
marker forward 1 space, puts the next panic 
level sticker for Algiers, and places 1 black 
cube on every city connected to Algiers: 
Madrid, Paris, Istanbul, and Cairo. Cairo 
already has 3 black cubes, so Anna does not 
place a 4th cube there. Instead, a chain reaction 
outbreak occurs in Cairo.
Anna moves the outbreaks marker forward 
1 more space. She puts the next panic level 
sticker for Cairo. She places 1 black cube 
on every city connected to Cairo: Istanbul, 
Baghdad, Riyadh, and Khartoum – but not 
Algiers, as Algiers has already had an outbreak 
while resolving this Infection card. Then, Anna 
discards the Algiers Infection card. 
ADRID
OUTBREAKS
When a disease outbreak occurs, move the outbreaks marker forward 
1 space on the Outbreaks Track. Then, place 1 cube of the disease color 
on every city connected to the city. If any of them already has 3 cubes of 
the disease color, do not place a 4th cube in those cities. Instead, in each of 
them, a chain reaction outbreak occurs after the current outbreak is done.
When a chain reaction outbreak occurs, first move the outbreaks marker 
forward 1 space. Then, place cubes as above, except do not add a cube to 
cities that have already had an outbreak (or a chain reaction outbreak) as 
part of resolving the current Infection card.
As a result of outbreaks, a city may have disease cubes of multiple colors 
on it; up to 3 cubes of each color.
If the outbreaks marker reaches the last space of the Outbreaks 
Track, the game ends and your team has lost!
INCREASE PANIC LEVEL
Increase the panic level of all cities that have an outbreak. If the game 
would end due to outbreaks, only increase the panic level for the first 
8 outbreaks. If more than 8 cities would outbreak (due to chain reactions) 
players may choose which cities outbreak and increase their panic level, 
stopping when you get to the 8th outbreak.
If a city’s panic level reaches level 2, remove any research station 
present in that city. If there is a starting research station sticker in that 
city (explained on page 14), cover that sticker with a destroyed research 
station sticker.
When an outbreak occurs in a city at panic level 5, do not place a sticker, 
but resolve the outbreak as usual.
In later games, it is possible for cities to become isolated so that outbreaks 
in it do not affect any adjacent cities. In this case, increase the panic level of 
the outbreaking city but do not raise the Outbreaks Track marker.
CHECK FOR SCARS
Characters standing in an outbreaking city receive a scar.
TURN END
After infecting cities and discarding Infection cards, your turn is over. 
The player on your left begins their turn. 
RULE STICKER R
RULE STICKER S
RULE STICKER T
RULE STICKER U

GAME END
You win as soon as you meet the necessary number of objectives. The 
game ends immediately, even if it is the middle of a player’s turn or a 
series of outbreaks.
There are many ways for the game to end and the players to lose:
• Immediately when the outbreaks marker reaches the last space of the 
Outbreaks Track,
• Immediately if you are unable to place the number of disease cubes actually 
needed on the board. Any future cubes and/or outbreaks don’t happen,
• If a player cannot draw 2 Player cards after doing their actions.
WIN OR LOSE, THE GROUP CHOOSES TWO 
GAME END UPGRADES AT THE END OF THE 
GAME.
IF YOU WIN THE GAME
• You get the Win Bonus for the next month. This is described on cards in 
the Legacy deck.
• You start your next game at the beginning of the next month.
• Your Funding Level is cut by 2 (minimum of 0) as you clearly have 
the situation in hand. 
• Record your new funding level.
IF YOU LOSE THE GAME
• If this is the first time the month has been played, you must try the 
month again. If not, move on to the next month for your next game.
• Your Funding Level is increased by 2 (maximum of 10) as this mess 
needs to be fixed ASAP.
• Record your new funding level.
IN EITHER CASE (WIN OR LOSE)
• Choose two upgrades (see next section). 
• Clear the board of all game pieces. 
• Discard all City cards. These all reset for the start of the next game. 
Do not put any Legacy cards back in the Legacy deck, even if playing 
the same month. Just continue where you left off in the Legacy deck. 
• If playing the same month again, your mission briefing and objectives 
are the same.
Set up future games as described in Setup on pages 6-7.
GAME END UPGRADES
Win or lose, you choose two upgrades at the end of each game. You may 
choose the same upgrade twice. 
UNFUNDED EVENTS 
Select an event sticker to add to any City card in the Player Deck. This 
card is now both a City card and an Event card and can be used either 
way, but not both. These City/Event cards are available every game (they’re 
unaffected by the funding level). Each City card can only have one sticker.
STARTING RESEARCH STATIONS 
Select a city currently containing a research station and add a starting 
research station sticker. Add a research station to every city with one 
of these stickers during the setup of all future games. When placing a 
starting research station sticker, place it close to the city (similar to the 
one printed on the board for Atlanta). Do not place it in a panic level 
sticker box.
CHARACTER UPGRADES
Add an upgrade to a character. Each character has room for 2 upgrades 
(except the Generalist, who has 4). Players may stick an upgrade over an 
existing upgrade. Upgrades can only be applied to characters that were in 
the just-played game.
POSITIVE MUTATIONS
If you’ve eradicated a disease during this game, you may give that disease 
a positive mutation to make it easier to find a cure in future games. Put the 
positive mutation sticker on the disease tracking area of the board.
Diseases that gain the Efficient to Sequence mutation are cured as soon as 
one player discards the necessary number of cards. This does not require 
an action and can happen on another player’s turn.
CARDS
PLAYER CARDS
As you play, you will have the option to place stickers on City cards. Each 
City card can have one sticker. When you play a City card with a sticker, 
you choose whether it is being played as a City card or using the effect of 
the sticker, never both.
Players may always examine discard piles.
HAND LIMIT
If you ever have more than 7 cards in hand (after first resolving any 
Epidemic cards you may have drawn), discard cards or play Event cards 
until you have 7 cards in hand (see Event Cards). 
Only Player cards count towards your hand limit.
EVENT CARDS
Playing an Event card is not an action. The player who plays an Event 
card decides how it is used. Event cards can be played at any time, except 
in between drawing and resolving a card.
Example: During infections, the first Infection card drawn causes an 
outbreak. You may not play the Remote Treatment to prevent this. After 
this outbreak happens however, you may use Remote Treament before 
flipping over the next Infection card.
After playing an Event card, discard it to the Player Discard Pile.
STRUCTURES
Each city may contain one of each type of structure.
RESEARCH STATIONS
You need to be at a research station to use the Discover a Cure action. 
You can also use the Shuttle Flight action to travel between two research 
stations. Destroy a research station in a city if it is rioting. If it was a 
starting research station, replace the starting research station sticker with 
a destroyed research station sticker. You cannot build a research station in 
a city that is rioting, collapsing, or fallen.
OVERLOOKED RULES
• You do not draw a replacement card after drawing an Epidemic card.
• You may Discover a Cure at any Research Station – the color of its city 
does not need to match the disease you are curing.
• On your turn, you may take a card from another player, if you are both in 
the city that matches the card you are taking.
• On your turn, you may take any City card from the Researcher (only), 
if you are both in the same city.
• Your hand limit applies immediately after getting a card from 
another player.
• Characters gain a scar from standing in a city that outbreaks.
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE MESS UP A RULE 
SINCE WE CAN’T GO BACK?
In most cases, it won’t matter. A little rule confusion here or there or a card 
left out of a deck or something forgotten will not greatly affect your game. 
Just note it and move on.
In some cases a missing or confused rule will have resulted in a whole 
game being too easy or too hard. In this case, the group should decide 
whether to increase their funding for next game (if you accidentally made 
a game too hard) or reduce funding for the next game (if you made a game 
too easy).
CREDITS
Game design: Matt Leacock and Rob Daviau
Artwork: Chris Quilliams
Graphic design: Philippe Guérin
Rules Layout: Marie-Eve Joly
Editing: Jean-François Gagné
Playtesters: Sherrie Alder, Robby Anderson, Chris Aylott, Margaret and Richard 
Bliss, Michael Bretzlaff, Brett Burgess, Danny Calderon, Chris and Kim Farrell, 
Nathan Fluegel, Rich Fulcher, Mark Goetz, Jason Grantz, Mickie Grantz, Chris Grim, 
Philip Gross, Shelby Hemker, David Heron, Carissa Josephic, Jesse Josephic, Tim 
Keating, David Kloba, Shawn Murphy, Colleen, Donna, Ruth and Tim Leacock, 
Patrick Neary, Steve Nix, Dave Nolin, Jonathan Owens, Bryan Reed, Jason Schklar, 
Jenn Skahen, Ken Tidwell, Stephen Waldron, Kit Yona, and Ian Zang.
Gen Con Playtesters: Ryan Corder, Martin Lieser, Paul Madden, and Nicholas Kent.
Special Thanks: Tom Lehmann, Beth Heile, and John Knoerzer.
Learn the rules to the original game online at: 
www.zmangames.com/pandemic-online-rules.html
© 2015 F2Z Entertainment Inc. 
31 rue de la Coopérative 
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 
Canada
 Follow Pandemic The Board game on 
info@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com
RULE STICKER W
RULE STICKER V
RULE STICKER Y
RULE STICKER X

Funding
Players and Characters
Win or Lose ?
 
January
May
March
July
September
November
February
June
April
August
October
December
NOTES:
If you win, advance to the next month and decrease your funding by 2.
If you lose the first half of the month, play the second half of the month and increase your funding by 2.
If you lose in the second half of the month, increase your funding by 2, then proceed to the next month.
Funding cannot go under 0 or over 10.