RULES OF PLAY 
I. INTRODUCTION 
PANZER LEADER is a realistic game simulating tactical level combat on the Western 
Front during World War Two. The twenty game situations cover the gamut of combat 
encounters between the Allies and their German adversaries. Additionally, the open-
ended design of the PANZER LEADER game system allows players to design and 
compile their own situations, thus creating unlimited game possibilities. Like its famous 
sister-game, PANZERBLITZ (Tactical Armored Combat on the Eastern Front, 1941-45), 
PANZER LEADER is not only an exciting game experience; it is also a valuable source 
of comparative information illustrating the strengths and weaknesses of the opposing 
German, British and American armies. 
IF YOU HAVE NEVERED PLAYED A WARGAME BEFORE, don’t be overwhelmed 
by what may look like a lot of complicated rules. Sometimes more than a few words are 
required to precisely express a simple and easily understood concept. REMEMBER: 
These rules are based on common sense applications of real-life events and operations. 
As such, their only purpose is to translate real-world occurrences into the game format. It 
is not necessary to memorize these rules. Read the rules once, play a practice game or 
two, and then re-read any sections that are unclear, bearing in mind the experience gained 
in the practice games. Once the basics of movement and combat are understood, the finer 
points of the rules will fall into place as you gain experience. 
A WORD TO VETERAN AVALON HILL GAME PLAYERS: Although this game is 
based on the familiar PANZERBLITZ game-system, many subtle refinements and 
changes have been added. Read ALL of the rules before beginning play, as even some of 
the “standard” rules sections contain significant changes. 
II. COMPONENTS 
A. GAME EQUIPMENT 
1. Mapboard 
Mapboard consisting of four sections which can be joined together in a variety of ways to 
form many different terrain configurations. 
2. German Counters 
German die-cut counter sheet (192 pieces). 
3. Allied Counters 
Allied die-cut counter sheet (192 pieces). 
4. Cards 
Set of Situation and Player Aid Cards (seven cards). 

5. Rules 
Rules of Play and Designer’s Notes booklet. 
6. One Die 
B. THE MAPBOARD 
The four-section mapboard represents a varied sampling of typical terrain in France and 
Germany. Each section is identified by a letter (A,B, C, or D) located just above the fold 
line. The board is “geomorphic” i.e. capable of being changed by re-arranging the four 
sections in a variety of juxtapositions. The long edge of each mapboard section will line 
up with the long edge of any other section no matter which way they are joined together, 
except for the sea edge of board ‘B’. The short edges join with each other in a similar 
fashion. The scale of the mapboard is 1 hexagon = 250 meters. Refer to the Terrain 
Effects Chart for a complete explanation of mapboard symbols and their effects on 
movement and combat. 
C. THE PLAYING PIECES 
The die-cut, cardboard pieces represent platoon or battery-sized military units of different 
types (e.g., infantry platoons, tank platoons, assault gun platoons, etc.), which are the 
playing pieces used in the game. Hereafter they will be referred to as “units” or “unit 
counters”. The numbers on the unit counters represent that unit’s capabilities with respect 
to movement, attack, defense and range of weapons. The other symbols or silhouettes 
identify what type of units the counters represent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note that all vehicle units are symbolized with an appropriate silhouette and all other 
(non-vehicle) units are symbolized with standard military-planning symbols. 
Movement Allowance: The basic maximum number of hexagons (hexes) which a unit 
may move in one turn, expressed as a certain number of movement points. In general 
each unit will expend one movement point from its movement (point) allowance to move 
a distance of one hex. 
Attack Strength: The basic offensive power of a given unit, expressed as a certain 
number of attack strength points. 
ATTACK STRENGTH
WEAPONS TYPE
RANGE
SYMBOL
TYPE OF UNIT
DEFENSE STRENGTH
MOVEMENT ALLOWANCE
PICS NUMBER

Defense Strength: The basic defensive strength of a given unit, expressed as a certain 
number of defensive strength points. 
Range: The maximum effective distance (in hexes) that a unit’s attack strength can be 
used against enemy units. EXAMPLE: a unit with a range of 8 could fire its weapons 
(use its attack strength) against an enemy unit’s defensive strength within that 8-hex 
range. 
III. GENERAL OUTLINE OF PLAY 
Each side maneuvers its forces (playing pieces) on the terrain map seeking to destroy 
enemy units or gain a specific territorial objective as outlined on the Situation Cards. 
Players move their pieces and have combat by taking turns. Each complete turn 
represents six minutes of real time. 
The forces in a given Situation may be unequal and one side may have a better chance of 
winning than the other, but it is primarily the skill of the individual player which 
determines the outcome of the game. The chance element introduced by the use of the 
die-roll Combat Results Table is only that degree of chance consistently present in any 
real-life combat event. 
IV. SEQUENCE OF TURNS 
PANZER LEADER is played in turns. Each turn is divided into two identical player 
segments: the Allied player segment and the German player segment. 
To avoid confusion, each player segment is further divided into four “phases”. 
A. ALLIED PLAYER SEGMENT 
1. Combat Phase 
Allied player executes and resolves minefield attacks, direct and indirect fire combat, and 
writes “orders” for the next turn’s indirect fire combat. 
2. Air Phase 
Allied player moves any aircraft units desired. German player executes and resolves anti-
aircraft attacks. Allied player resolves fighter bomber attacks. 
3. Movement Phase 
Allied player moves any units that did not fire in the combat phase. 
4. Close Assault Phase 
Allied player executes and resolves all CAT attacks. 
B. GERMAN PLAYER SEGMENT 
German player follows the same procedure as outlined above using his own units. 

C. TURN NOW 
The Turn Now counter is moved one box signifying the completion of one game turn. 
This procedure is followed for each turn of the game. 
V. MOVEMENT 
During the movement phase of a player’s segment, he may move as many uninverted 
units as he wishes. Each unit may be moved as many hexes as desired within the limits of 
its movement allowance and terrain restrictions (see Terrain Effects Chart). 
A. TERRAIN FEATURES 
1. Hexagon Grid 
The hexagonal grid superimposed upon the mapboard is used to regulate movement and 
combat. A hex is considered to be a given type of terrain if all or any part of it contains 
that terrain feature. The only exception to this is town hexes where slight overlap into 
non-town hexes is ignored. Terrain effects movement and defense as outlined in the 
Terrain Effects Chart (TEC). 
2. Heavy Hex Side Symbols 
The “heavy hex side” symbols (different colored bars superimposed upon some hex 
sides) are explained in the OBSTACLE AND ELEVATIONS section of the rules. 
3. Sea Hexes 
Sea hexes may be entered only by units presumed to be in landing craft or amphibious 
vehicles. 
4. Half Hexes 
The half-hexes on the outer edges of the board are considered playable and may be 
utilized as if they were complete hexagons. 
B. HOW TO MOVE UNITS 
1. Hexes 
Movement is calculated in terms of hexes. Basically, each unit expends one movement 
point (MP) of its total movement (point) allowance for each hex it enters. To enter some 
types of hexes requires the expenditure of more than one MP for each hex entered. A 
complete list of these “entry costs” is found on the Terrain Effects Chart (TEC). 
2. Voluntary 
In any one turn a play may move as many or as few of his units as he desires. Movement 
is voluntary, never required. 

3. Fired and Dispersed Units 
Units which have fired (used their attack strength) in a combat phase of a player’s 
segment may not move in that movement phase. “Dispersed” units may not move (see 
how to Have Combat and the Combat Results Table). 
4. Moved Individually 
Each unit is moved individually, tracing the path of movement through each hex in turn. 
Once a unit has completed its movement, it may not be changed, repositioned, or 
realigned. (A unit’s movement is considered completed when the player begins moving 
another unit). 
5. At Least One Hex 
Units with a movement allowance of “1” may move one hex per turn regardless of 
terrain. 
6. Moving Through Friendly Unit Hexes 
Units may move through hexes containing other friendly units. Units may not, however, 
enter or move through hexes containing the maximum allowable number of units (see 
Stacking, below). 
7. Moving Through Enemy Unit Hexes 
Units may not enter or pass through hexes containing enemy units (EXCEPTION: see 
OVERRUN RULE). 
8. No Enemy Movement 
No enemy movement is allowed during a friendly movement phase. 
9. No Combat 
No combat, enemy or friendly, takes place during the movement phase (EXCEPTION: 
See OVERRUN RULE and OPPORTUNITY FIRE OPTIONAL RULE). 
C. TRANSPORTING UNITS 
1. “C” Class Vehicular Units 
The “C” class vehicular units have the capability of transporting non-vehicular units 
(guns and infantry). Each “C” unit has the capacity to transport one non-vehicular unit. 
The non-vehicular unit being transported is indicated as such by being placed UNDER 
the “C” unit. Never place non-vehicular units under vehicular units unless they are being 
transported by those units. 
2. Load, Transport, or Unload 
In any one turn a “C” unit may either “Load”, “Transport”, or “Unload”, or it may 
perform combinations of these operations depending on the type of unit being 
transported. 

a) 88mm or Larger Artillery Units 
Artillery units of 88mm or larger (88mm, 90mm, 105mm, 107mm, 120mm, 150mm, 
155mm, 170mm, and 8 inch), require the “C” unit to expend its entire movement 
allowance to load or unload. That is, the “C” unit and the artillery unit must be in the 
same hex at the beginning and end of the movement phase. 
b) Less Than 88mm 
Artillery units of less than 88mm, (20mm, 37mm, 40mm, 57mm, 76mm, 76mm, 81mm, 
17lbr), the Nebelwerfer, 25 lbr, and all infantry type units, require the “C” unit to expend 
half of its movement allowance for that phase (fractions round UP) to load or unload. The 
“C” unit may move up to half its movement allowance before performing the load or 
unload operations, or it may perform either of them and move up to half its movement 
allowance afterwards. The passenger unit may NOT move in the player segment in which 
it is loaded or unloaded. 
c) Fired or Dispersed Units 
Passenger or carrier units which use their attack strength in the current player segment, or 
are dispersed, may NOT load in that player segment. 
d) Spitting Not Allowed 
A carrier’s movement allowance may never be split before and after a load or unload 
operation in the same movement phase. It my only load or unload in a single movement 
phase, NEVER BOTH. 
e) Stacking Limits 
Carrier units may not load or unload in a hex if such procedures violate stacking limits 
(see below). 
3. Truck and Wagon Defense Strength 
A truck or wagon unit and the unit is transporting have a combined defense strength of 
“1”. 
4. Halftracks 
When using halftracks as transport, the defense strength of the halftrack unit is used when 
attacked. Halftrack units may fire while loaded. 
5. Carrier and Passenger Treated as One Unit 
Passenger and carrier are treated as one unit for stacking and combat purposes (see 
Stacking Limitations). If combat results call for elimination, both are eliminated. If 
dispersed, both are dispersed. 

6. German Armored Vehicles 
ONLY GERMAN armored vehicle units (tanks, assault guns, etc.), may transport 
infantry-type units in a fashion similar to “C” units. Each armored unit may transport one 
passenger unit. EXCEPTION: German SPA units may never transport other units. 
a) When Attacked 
If a German armored unit is destroyed while transporting, both passenger and carrier are 
destroyed. Units being transported on armored units may be attacked exclusive of the 
armored unit, in which case the passenger has a nominal defense strength of “1”. The 
armored unit is unaffected if only its passenger unit is attacked. In this case, the 
passenger unit is immediately unloaded if dispersed, unless such unloading violates the 
stacking limits. In which case BOTH the armored unit and its passenger are dispersed. 
b) Firing 
German armored units may fire when loading or unloading passengers. All other 
transport rules however apply. 
7. Unit Function Table 
See Unit Function Table for the exact capabilities of all units. 
D. ROAD MOVEMENT 
Units traveling along roads do so at the road movement rate regardless of the other terrain 
in the road hexes. Units may travel all roads on the mapboard through hexes containing 
types of terrain in which they might otherwise be prohibited. Roads do not alter the 
defensive effects of other terrain in the hex. 
1. Road Movement Rate 
All units move along roads at a cost of ½ movement point per road hex. Entering a road 
hex through a non-road hex side is done at the cost of the other terrain in the road hex 
being entered. 
2. Combined Movement Rates 
Units may freely combine road and non-road movement in the same turn. 
3. Stacking Limitation 
A unit may move into a road hex from an adjacent road hex of the same road at the road 
movement rate ONLY if the hex contains no more than TWO other units. 
4. Stacking Limitation, Again 
If the hex contains more than two other units, the road movement rate may not be used. 
5. Again, Stacking Limitation 
If entry into a particular hex is prohibited for a unit except by road movement, a unit may 
not enter that hex if there are MORE than two units on that hex. 

EXAMPLE: A vehicular unit may cross a green hex side and enter a hex containing two 
other units via a road at the road movement rate. If there were three or move units in that 
hex, it could not cross that green hex side. 
6. Blocks, Fortifications, and Minefields 
Units may not enter hexes containing blocks, fortifications, or minefield counters at the 
road movement rate regardless of the number of units in the hex. Vehicular units may not 
corss adjacent green hex sides when moving into a road hex containing an enemy 
fortification, a block or minefield counter. 
7. Carrier and Passenger Treated as One Unit 
Remember: a vehicle with passengers is considered as one unit and may therefore travel 
at the road movement rate without affecting other units abnormally. 
VI. STACKING 
A. MAXIMUM OF FOUR 
Both sides may stack a maximum of four units in one hex. 
B. CARRIER AND PASSENGER TREATED AS ONE UNIT 
When a unit is being transported by another unit, the passenger and the carrier are 
considered as one unit for stacking purposes. 
C. MINEFIELD COUNTERS DO NOT COUNT 
Minefield counters do not count towards stacking limits. 
D. BLOCKS, FORTIFICATIONS AND WRECKS DO COUNT 
Block, fortification (limited: see rules) and wreck counters do count towards stacking 
limits. 
E. AT ALL TIMES 
Stacking limits apply at ALL TIMES. (EXCEPTION: units may overrun enemy units 
stacked four-high). Units may not enter or move through hexes containing four units 
(friendly units, blocks, wrecks, fortification counters, or combinations thereof). 
F. UNIT FUNCTION TABLE 
See Unit Function Table for exact stacking restrictions of all units. 
VII. COMBAT 
A. HOW TO HAVE COMBAT 
Basically, to have combat, the attacking unit compares its attack strength to the defending 
unit’s defense strength. The comparison is stated as a ratio, attacker to defender, which is 
then rounded down (in the defender’s favor) to conform to the “combat odds” column 

printed on the Combat Results Table (CRT). EXAMPLE: 11 to 3 rounds down to 3 to 1. 
Roll the die and apply the results, as indicated by the CRT, to the defending units 
involved in that specific combat situation. 
B. DIRECT FIRE ATTACKS 
1. Executed in Combat Phase 
Direct fire attacks are executed in the combat phase of a player segment. Only the player 
whose combat phase it is my attack; the other player is considered the “defender”. 
2. Voluntary 
A player may make as many or as few attacks per turn as he desires (within the 
restrictions of the rules of combat). A player is never forced to attack. Attacks are 
voluntary, never required. 
3. Within Range 
Only enemy units within range of an attacking unit may be fired upon by that unit. 
Infantry units with an asterisk (‘*’) after their range may fire to twice their printed range 
at the reduced effectiveness of one half normal attack strength. 
4. May Attack Only Once 
A single unit may not attack more than one enemy occupied hex per combat phase. 
Attack and defense strengths are not transferable from one unit to another. Each unit is 
treated as an indivisible attack strength and defense strength. 
5. Combined Attack Strength 
More than on attacking unit may fire at one target unit. All attacking units firing on the 
same defending unit must total their attack strengths into one combined attack strength 
before computing the combat odds. Units may fire only once per player segment. 
6. Attacking Units May Not Move 
Units which fire (attack) in the combat phase of player segment may NOT move in the 
movement phase of the same player segment. 
7. Line Of Fire 
All attacking units executing direct fire attacks must be able to trace a “direct line of fire” 
to the target hex. A “direct line of fire”, as explained under the “Obstacles and Elevation” 
section, is a straight line traced from the attacking unit’s hex dot to the target hex dot 
which is free of blocking terrain. 
8. Attacker Chooses Units in Target Hex 
The attacker may choose any combination of units in the defending hex as his target. Any 
units within that hex that are not fired upon are not affected by the combat results. 

9. CRT 
Direct fire attacks are resolved on the Combat Results Table using the procedure outlined 
in “A” above. 
C. INDIRECT FIRE 
1. Executed in Combat Phase 
Indirect fire attacks, like direct fire attacks, are executed in the combat phase of a player 
segment. 
2. Only “M” and “(H)” Units 
ONLY Class “M”, and those class “H” units indicated by parenthesis, “(H)”, may employ 
indirect fire. 
3. IF Orders in Previous Turn 
Unlike direct fire attacks, the target hex must be designated at the beginning of the 
combat phase of the previous turn by secretly writing down the target hex coordincates 
and the firing units. (NOTE: Artillery units that are dispersed may NOT be targeted for 
indirect fire.) Such designated targets MUST be fired upon (i.e., the gun cannot change 
targets if the target hex turns out to be empty or if something better turns up) if the unit is 
to execute any attacks in that combat phase. The unit is not required to attack, but if it 
does, it must attack only the designated target hex using the indirect fire method. 
4. No Direct LOF Required 
As the name implies, indirect fire differs from direct fire in that the firing unit itself is 
not required to trace a “direct line of fire” to the target (i.e., it doesn’t have to “see” the 
target hex). In order for certain artillery units to attack a target by the indirect fire 
method, it is only necessary that another friendly unit be able to “see” (have a “direct line 
of sight” to) the target hex. In regards to woods and town hexes, a friendly unit must be 
adjacent to those hexes, or an enemy unit must have fired from those hexes for indirect 
fire attacks to be designated against them (see section L. SPOTTING). 
5. Spotting Units 
Any combat unit, except trucks and wagons, that could theoretically use direct fire 
against a hex (i.e., “see” it) may be used to fulfill the indirect fire sighting requirements. 
6. Attacking Units in a Hex 
Indirect fire attacks are directed against specific hexes, not necessarily specific enemy 
units. In some cases a target hex could even be empty at the time the attack is designated 
in anticipation of enemy units moving into it. 

7. Loaded, Dispersed and Moved Units May Not Be 
Designated in IF Orders 
Units that are loaded or dispersed may not be designated for indirect fire. Units 
designated for indirect fire may not move between the time the fire is designated and the 
time the fire is executed. 
8. Scattered 
If all of the units sighting (or spotting) a particular target hex are destroyed, dispersed, or 
move away between the time the indirect fire is designated and when it is executed, the 
fire may become scattered. To determine if the fire scatters in this event, roll the die once 
and consult the Scatter Chart, below: 
 
DIE ROLL 
EFFECT 
1 or 2 
Indirect fire hits target normally. 
3, 4, or 5 
Indirect fire hits one of the six adjacent hexes, roll die once and consult 
Scatter Diagram to determine which hex hit. 
Indirect fire widely dispersed. Not units in target hex are attacked. 
 
If the fire is scattered, the full effect of the indirect fire is applied to one of the adjacent 
hexes according to the die roll. Units in that hex (enemy or friendly) receive the full 
effect of the attack. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. All Units in Target Hex 
Indirect fire attacks must be directed towards all of the units in a target hex. 
IF Attack Resolution 
Indirect fire attacks are resolved differently than other types of attack. For each indirect 
fire attack follow this procedure: 
a) Calculate Attack Strength 
Calculate the number of strength points firing and DIVIDE this total by the number of 
enemy UNIT COUNTERS in the target hex. Passenger-carrier and fortifications (plus the 
units in them) count as one. 
NORTH

b) Combat Odds 
This reduced attack strength is then applied to each individual target unit to create combat 
odds for (ad an individual attack on) each unit. The die is rolled once for each target unit 
and the results applied accordingly. 
c) Example 
EXAMPLE: 80 strength points fire indirectly at a target hex containing three German 
units: an engineer (DS = 10), an infantry (DS = 9), and an 81mm mortar (DS = 3). This 
computes as 80 ÷ 3 (the number of defending units) = 26 (the reduced attack strength). 
Applied to each defending unit, this generates combat odds of 26 to 10 (2-1), 26 to 8 (3-
1), and 26 to 3 (4-1). The die is rolled three times once under the 2-1, 3-1, and 4-1 
columns, and the results applied to each of the respective defending units. 
DF and IF May Not Be Combined 
Indirect fire may NOT be combined with direct fire against the same target hex in the 
same combat phase. 
(H) Unit Range Limit 
NOTE: (H)-type weapons may one use indirect fire against targets which are more than 
¼ of their printed range away (rounded down). EXAMPLE: A British 25 lber (range = 
35) could not fire indirectly at targets that are within 8 hexes of its location. 
D. OVERRUN ATTACK 
1. Clear Terrain Only 
Armored vehicle units may only overrun those enemy units located in clear terrain hexes 
(including clear terrain road hexes and clear hilltop hexes). 
2. Executed and Resolved in Movement Phase 
Unlike other methods of attack, overruns are executed and immediately resolved as they 
occur in the movement phase. (Stacking limits are ignored in this case: see below.) All 
units intending to overrun the same target are moved before the attack is resolved. 
3. Move Through Enemy Hex 
To overrun a unit or stack of units, move the attacking armored vehicle unit(s) straight 
through the enemy occupied hex, exiting into the hex DIRECTLY opposite the hex of 
entry. Overrunning units must stop in the “exit hex” and may move no further that 
movement phase. If the exit hex is occupied by enemy units, the overrun attack may not 
be made. Overrunning units may not move at the road rate, but they may use roads to 
negate the effects of terrain. Overrunning units must have sufficient movement points 
remaining to reach the exit hex. The exit hex does not have to be a clear terrain hex, nor 
does the entry hex; only the target hex must be clear terrain. 

4. Increased Combat Effect 
Overrunning units attack with an increased combat effect. The odds ratio of the attack is 
computed using the normal procedure. The combat odds, however, are then 
INCREASED by one column in favor of the attacker (e.g., an odds ration of 3 to 1 
increases to 4 to 1). Additionally, “2” is subtracted from the die roll results (e.g., a die roll 
of “3” is treated as if it were a roll of “1”). 
5. Combined Defense and Attack Strength 
A defending stack is treated as one combined defense strength when being overrun. More 
than one armored unit may overrun an enemy stack and the overrunning units do not have 
to enter and exit through the same hexes. They must, however, execute their overrun 
attacks as one combined attack strength. In other words, a defending unit or stack may 
not suffer more than one overrun attack per movement phase. 
6. Ignore WEC 
In determining overrun odds, use only the strengths printed on the units (for attacker and 
defender). Do not halve or double the attack strengths as shown on the Weaons 
Effectiveness Chart. Use only the overrun “bonus” as outlined in “4” above. 
7. Attacking Units May Not Fire and Overrun 
Overrunning units may not execute direct fire attacks during the combat phase of the 
segment in which the overrun is made. 
8. Blocks, Wrecks, Minefields and Fortifications 
Units on block, wreck, minefield or fortification counters may not be overrun. 
9. Restrictions 
The German SPA units (Maultier, Wespe and Hummel) may NOT make overrun attacks. 
Halftracks may not overrun armored vehicles (including halftracks). See the Unit 
Function Table for an exact listing of overrun limitations for all types of units. 
E. CLOSE ASSAULT TACTICS (CAT) 
All types of German and Allied infantry and engineer units have the option of using close 
assault tactics (CAT) instead of making a normal attack. Cloase assault attacks are 
executed in the close assault phase of a player segment. 
1. Must Be Adjacent 
Close assaulting units must be adjacent to the defending unit or stack they are attacking. 
2. May Not Be Combined With DF 
Units utilizing CAT may NOT make normal attacks in the same player segment. 
3. Unloaded Units May Not CAT 
Units that have been transported by vehicular units in the same player segment may not 
use CAT attacks. Units may, however, move and CAT attack in the same player segment 

(NOTE: Overrun and CAT attacks are the only exceptions to the general rule which 
forbids movement and combat by the same unit in the same turn.) 
4. Increased Combat Effect 
Close assaulting units have their effectiveness increased by subtracting “2” from their 
die-roll result. (e.g., a die roll of “2” becomes a die-roll of “0”), The defending stack must 
be treated as one combined defense strength and may suffer only one close assault per 
5. Engineer Units Increase Combat Odds 
If infantry and engineer units are stacked together in the same hex when close assaulting 
the same defender, the effectiveness of that close assault is further increased by raising 
the odds in their favor to the next highest ratio (as in the overrun rule). At least one 
engineer unit must be stacked with at least one infantry unit. 
6. Allied MG Units Must Be Stacked With Non-MG Units 
Allied MG units may only close assault if they are stacked in the same hex with at least 
one (non-MG) infantry-type unit (infantry, engineer, or scout) which is close assaulting 
the SAME defender. 
7. Only Way “I” Units May Attack Armored Units 
Close assault is the only way in which “I” units may attack armored vehicle units. 
8. Target May Be Any Type 
Any type of defending unit may be attacked using close assault tactics. CAT may be 
executed from any type of terrain except stream hexes. 
9. Sea Hex Restriction 
SPECIAL: CAT attacks may not be executed against targets in sea hexes. 
F. WEAPON-TO-TARGET RELATIONSHIPS 
1. Weapon Type 
The class-key letter symbols determine what type of weapons a unit is armed with: 
 
Letter 
Weapon 
I 
Light (infantry-type) weapons (rifles and 
machine-guns). 
A 
Armor piercing weapons (high velocity 
tank and anti-tank guns). 
H 
High explosive shells (low velocity 
howitzers, etc.). 
(H) 
High explosive shells with indirect fire 
capabilities. 
M 
Mortars (similar to “(H)”). 

2. WEAPONS EFFECTIVENESS CHART (WEC) 
a) Attacker to Defender Type Relationship 
The effectiveness of these weapons changes in relation to the target type and range from 
target. This is reflected in the WEC by doubling and halving a unit’s attack strength 
accordingly. NOTE: Half range is always rounded DOWN to the nearest whole hex; the 
attacking unit loses fractions. (EXAMPLE: half of 9 is 4.) Half attack strength is never 
rounded off; retain fractions (EXAMPLE: half of 13 is 6 ½). 
b) Mixed Target Stacks 
When making a direct fire attack against units in a mixed stack, determine what type of 
unit counter (armored or non-armored) predominates in the stack and treat the entire 
stack as if all the units in it were that type of target. If the targe stack is divided evenly 
between armored and non-armored unit counters, treat the whole stack as if it were that 
type of target least favorable to the particular attacking unit(s). Units being transported 
are ignored; only the carrier units are considered when determining predominance. Units 
inside fortifications are ignored for determining predominance; rather, the fortification is 
counted as ONE armored unit. 
c) Town Hexes 
Units in town hexes are considered as armored targes whether or not such units actually 
are armored. Units stacked together in town hexes must be attacked as one combined 
defense strength when using direct fire. 
d) Fortifications 
Fortifications are considered armored targets. 
e) WEC Not Used For Overrun Attacks 
WEC is not used in determining overrun odds. 
f) H and M Class Limitations 
H and M class weapons are always halved (do NOT round off; retain fractions) against 
armored vehicles unless the H is used for direct fire against armor at a range of 6 hexes or 
less. 
3. Double Attack Range For Infantry Units 
Infantry units with an asterisk after their range (Example: 2*) may fire to double their 
printed range with an attack strength of one-half their normal strength. 
G. OBSTACLES AND ELEVATIONS 
1. Mapboard 
The mapboard is a two-dimensional representation of a three-dimensional space. The 
various terrain features, aside from affecting movement and combat may also effect the 

ability of attacking units to fire at given defending units by obstructing the Line-of-Site. 
Since the weapons used in this game are primarily direct-fire weapons, an attacking direct 
fire unit may not fire at any target which it cannot “see” (i.e., trace an unobstructed line 
from the firing unit hex to the target hex). 
The terrain symbols on the map show the location of potential obstructions and the hex 
side symbols show in which direction fire is obstructed. These “heavy” hex side symbols 
are color-coded according to the type of obstruction they represent. 
2. Obstacle Elevations 
There are three general types of obstacle/hex sides which block the Line-of-Sight and 
therefore prevent fire: 
a) Low Obstacles 
Low Obstacles: Ground level green (woods) hex sides and ground level town hexes. (10 
to 20 meters.) 
b) Medium Obstacles 
Medium Obstacles: Dark brown (slope) hex sides (60 to 70 meters.) 
c) High Obstacles 
High Obstacles: Orange (hilltop) and cliff hex sides. (100 to 140 meters.) 
3. Attacker to Target Elevation Relationship 
Whether or not a firing unit can “see over” these obstacles depends upon the elevation at 
which the firing unit and its potential target are. Units themselves are not considered as 
obstacles, and players may fire over or through all units, enemy or friendly. 
a) Attacker Elevation 
There are three elevations at which a unit may be: 
(1) Ground Level: 0 meters. 
(2) Slope Level: 50 to 60 meters. 
(3) Hilltop Level: 100 to 140 meters. 
b) Target Elevation Table 
A unit’s elevation is determined by the terrain it is on. The Target Elevation Table shows 
what hex side symbols obstruct the Line-of-Fire in different cases. 
H. HILL AND SLOPE DEFENSE EXCEPTIONS 
As indicated on the TEC (Terrain Effects Chart) a unit using direct fire against an enemy 
unit defending on a slope or hilltop, attacks at one half attack strength. There are some 
exceptional cases, however, in which the attacker is NOT halved. They are: 

1. Hilltop To Hilltop 
When the defending unit is on a hilltop, an attacking unit is NOT halved if it is also on a 
hilltop hex. 
2. Adjacent To Slope 
When a defender is on a slope, the attacking unit is NOT halved if the attacker is directly 
adjacent to the defender (regardless of elevation). 
EXCEPTION: If there is a brown hex side symbol BETWEEN an adjacent attacker and 
defender, the attacking unit’s attack strength IS halved. Units on slopes can conceivably 
be attacked by units which are halved and units which are not halved as part of the same 
attack. 
3. IF Attacks Are Never Halved 
Units using indirect fire are never halved because of elevation differences. 
4. All Other Cases 
In all situations other than those described above, an attacking unit (regardless of 
elevation) is halved when firing at units defending on slopes or hilltops. 
I. HOW TO DETERMINE THE LINE-OF-SIGHT/LINE-OF-
FIRE (LOS/LOF) 
For all practical purposes, the Line-of-Sight is equivalent to the Line-of-Fire. Essentially, 
the Line-of-Sight is a perfectly straight line measured from the center of the firing unit’s 
hex to the center of the target unit’s hex. The dot in the center of each hex represents the 
midpoint of that hex. The LOS is traced by placing a straightedge on the mapboard so 
that it runs through the midpoint dots of the firing unit’s hex and the target unit’s hex. 
The line is exactly equivalent to the Line-of-Fire from the firing unit to the target unit. 
Using the TET and LOS/LOF OBSTRUCTIONS sections, determine whether or not any 
town hexes or other hex side symbols encountered in tracing the Line-of-Sight actually 
obstruct the Line-of-Sight. 
J. LOS/LOF OBSTRUCTIONS 
1. Obstructions 
Only those hex side symbols (brown, green or orange) or town hexes intersected by the 
straightedge line between the firing unit and the target unit block the Line-of-Sight (and 
Line-of-Fire). 
a) Bisecting Through Length of Symbol 
If the straightedge bisects a hex side symbol through its LENGTH, that symbol blocks 
the LOS/LOF. SPECIAL: It would NOT block the LOS/LOF if it were a brown hex side 
connected to an orange hex side. 

b) Bisecting a Corner 
The defender is given the benefit of the doubt if the straightedge cuts exactly through the 
“corner” of a hex where a symbol side and a non-symbol side meet. Note that the heavy 
symbols do not always extend to the very ends of the hex sides. The LOS/LOF is 
blocked, however, through the entire hex side even if it is traced throught that part not 
covered by the heavy symbol color. 
2. Slope Or Hilltop To Ground level 
When firing FROM a slope or hilltop TO a ground level target, the Line-of-Sight is 
obstructed if the target unit is directly behind a town hex or a green hex side. “Directly 
behind” means the intended target is either adjacent to a town hex such that part of the 
town hex blocks the Line-of-Sight, or that a green hex side forms part of the target unit’s 
hex such that it blocks the LOS. 
3. Ground level To Slope Or Hilltop 
When firing FROM ground level TO a target on a hilltop or a slope, the Line-of-Sight is 
obstructed if the FIRING UNIT is directly behind a town hex or green hex side. 
4. Hilltop To Ground level Over Brown Hex Side 
When firing FROM a hilltop TO a ground level target, the Line-of-Sight is obstructed by 
intervening brown hex side symbols if such a symbol is closer to the TARGET hex than 
to the firing unit or if the symbol is exactly midway between the two. To determine the 
relative position of the bron symbol, count the number of hex SIDES through which the 
Line-of-Sight is traced (including the side of the firing hex and the side of the target hex). 
5. Ground level To Hilltop Over Brown Hex Side 
When firing FROM ground level TO a target on a hilltop, the Line-of-Sight is obstructed 
by intervening brown hex side symbols if such a symbol is closer to the FIRING UNIT 
than to the target, or exactly midway between the two. 
6. Converse 
Notice that “3” is converse of “2”, and “5” is converse of “4”. 
7. More Than One Orange Hex Side 
The ONLY case in which a unit may trace an unobstructed Line-of-Sight through MORE 
than ONE orange (hilltop) hex side symbol is when both the target and the firing unit ar 
on hilltops. In all other situations, the LOS is obstructed if it must be traced though 
MORE than ONE orange hex side. 
8. Adjacent 
No matter what the obstacle or the terrain, a unit may ALWAYS fire at a target to which 
it is directly adjacent (regardless of elevation). 

9. Woods And Towns On Hilltops 
In some cases, there are towns and woods on top of hilltops. The green hex side symbols 
and town hexes in these case obstruct ALL fire when they are intervening obstacles, no 
matter what the elevation of the target and firing unit (except when directly adjacent to 
each other as per “8”). 
Ground level To Ground level 
When both the target and the attacker are on ground level, ALL hex side symbols (green, 
brown and orange) and town hexes obstruct the Line-of-Sight (except as per “8”). 
MAPBOARD NOTES: 
a) Slopes 
In some cases, slope hexes do not have brown hex side symbols. This is because the 
brown symbols actually represent the way in which the slopes curve and form “corners” 
to obstruct the LOS. Consequently, whenever a slope is relatively straight, it does not 
obstruct the LOS along it. 
b) Ridges 
In some instances, two or more slope hexes meet without a hilltop being formed between 
them. This represents a ridge or “razorback” hillock. The brown hex side symbols 
represent the “spine” of these edges. NOTE: When firing from a hilltop hex to one of 
these ridge hexes or vice-versa, the brown hex side spine DOES NOT obstruct the 
LOS/LOF. 
c) Combined Woods And Slopes 
Som hexes contain both woods AND slopes. Terrain effects in these hexes are the 
combined effects of both types of terrain. NOTE: Green hex sides block the LOS/LOF in 
slope/hilltop woods hexes in exactly the same manner as they would for ground level 
woods hexes. 
d) Cliffs On Board B 
Mapboard section “B” contains unusual terrain configurations consisting of hilltop and 
slope hexes. To simplify LOS/LOF determination, only the slope-most row of hilltop 
hexes are orange hex sides. When determining the LOS (especially on the “interior” 
hexes of the mapboard), assume the elevation to be ground level to ground level, unless it 
intersects on orange hex side and a slope or cliff symbol. Sighting down a row of orange 
hex sides (as in hilltop to hilltop) would still be treated as ground level to ground level. 
e) Cliff-plateau On Board B 
Additionally, note that the cliff-plateau on board “B” has lower terrain on all sides (cliff 
to sea-ward, slope to land-ward) thus forming a coastal bluff, except for the one row of 
orange hexes which is treated in the same manner as the orange hex rows described 
above. 

K. STREAMS 
Northern European streams and small rivers are characterized by steep-sided meanders 
and silted bottoms. Further, they form depressions and support heavy vegetation offering 
excellent concealment. While not exceptionally swift, the depth of the slow moving water 
and the “mushy” consistency of the streambeds made streams unfordable for vehicles: 
1. Vehicular Restrictions 
Vehicular units (including wagons) may never enter stream hexes except in (undestroyed) 
bridge hexes. 
2. Non-Vehicular Requirements 
Non-vehicular units may enter stream hexes, but only after rolling a die once for each 
unit attempting to enter. A die roll of 1, 2, or 3 permits entry. If unsuccessful, a unit may 
not move during that movement phase. NOTE: The die must be rolled for each separate 
stream hex a unit attempts to enter. 
3. May Not Attack From Stream Hexes 
Units in stream hexes may not attack in any manner. 
4. Ground-Level LOF Restrictions 
Units in stream hexes may not be attacked by units in ground-level hexes unless such 
units are adjacent. 
5. Hilltop And Slope LOF Restrictions 
Units in stream hexes may be attacked by units in hilltop or slope hexes if they can trace 
an unobstructed LOS/LOF into that stream hex. Treat the unit in the stream hex as if it 
were at ground level for TET purposes. 
6. Bridges Are Equivalent To Clear Terrain 
Permanent and temporary bridges are equivalent to clear terrain for all purposes (except, 
of course in the case of temporary bridges built in woods-stream hexes, etc.). The hex in 
which a bridge crosses a stream is considered clear terrain even if the road carried by the 
bridge becomes unusable for road rate movement purposes (due to wrecks, blocks, other 
units, etc.). If the bridge is destroyed, however, the hex would be treated as a regular 
stream hex. 
L. SPOTTING 
1. Woods And Town Hex Defense 
When a defending enemy unit is in a woods or town hex, it may not be fired upon by 
friendly units which are not directly adjacent unless it has been “spotted” by at least one 
friendly unit. Defending units are spotted if: 
a) Adjacent Undispersed Friendly Unit 
There is a friendly, undispersed, unit adjacent to the defending enemy unit. 

b) Enemy Unit Has Fired In Friendly Unit LOS 
The defending unit has fired (used its attack strength in a non-CAT attack) while in the 
LOS of a friendly undispersed unit during the previous player segment and that friendly 
unit can still trace an unobstructed LOS to the target. Place a “Spotted” marker on those 
enemy units that fire while in the LOS of friendly undispersed units as such firing occurs. 
(NOTE: friendly units that are dispersed by such fire cannont be used to fulfill the 
requirement). The markers remain until the enemy units are no longer in friendly LOS or 
ALL friendly spotting units are subsequently dispersed, of the firing unit moves out of its 
initial firing hex into an unspotted town or woods hex. 
2. Dispersed Friendly Units May Not Spot 
Spotting units must be undispersed at the time that they “direct” fire. In regards to “b” 
above, the spotting unit cannot have been dispersed since the target unit fired. 
3. Truck And Wagon Units May Not Spot 
Truck and wagon units may not spot for any type of fire. 
VIII. WRECKAGE 
Whenever an ARMORED unit or a fortification counter is destroyed in combat, it is 
removed from the board and replaced with a wreck counter, to a maximum limit of three 
wrecks per hex. 
A. Wrecks may not be moved or removed. 
B. Each wreck counts as one unit for stacking purposes. 
C. The presence of wrecks has no effect on combat. 
D. Maximum Of Three Wrecks Per Hex 
NOTE: There is a limit to the total number of wrecks that may accumulate in any one 
particular hex. No more than THREE wreck counters are ever placed in any single hex. If 
an armored unit is destroyed in a hex containing three wrecks, no additional wreck 
markers are placed in that hex; the armored unit is simply removed from the mapboard. 
IX. POSITIONAL DEFENSES 
A. MINES 
The player with the minefield counters may position them anywhere within his set-up 
area unless otherwise directed by the situation card. Each mine counter represents a 
minefield constructed in that hex. 

a) One Mine Per Hex 
Only one mine counter may be placed in each hex. Minefield counters may not be placed 
on sea, town, bridge, or swamp hexes. 
b) May Not Be Moved 
Once positioned, mines may not be moved. 
c) Mines Have No Friends 
Mines have no friends -- they affect both sides. 
2. Stops Movement 
As soon as a unit moves onto a mine it must stop. 
3. Mine Attack 
The opposing player, during the combat portion of his turn, rolls the die for the attacking 
minefield. The minefield attacks ALL units at 2 to 1 odds no matter what the terrain. 
Each unit on a minefield counter is “attacked” separately. Surviving units may move off 
in their next turn. 
4. Dispersed Units Attacked Again 
Units dispersed by minefields may not move off them, and must again suffer a minefield 
attack in the following turn. 
5. Never Used Up 
A minefield is never “used up”. It remains active until removed by an engineer unit. 
6. No Stacking Affect 
Minefields do not affect stacking limitations. 
7. Other Attacks 
Minefield attacks take place in the combat phase BEFORE normal attacks and do not 
preclude direct of indirect attacks against that unit in the SAME combat phase. 
B. BLOCKS 
BLOCK counters represent tank traps, road blocks, barbed wire, felled trees and anything 
else that may impede movement. 
Blocks may be placed anywhere within a player’s set-up area, (except sea hexes) no more 
than one block per hex. 
2. Affects Movement 
A unit may only enter a hex containing a block counter if it begins its movement phase 
directly adjacent to that hex. Upon entering the block, hex, the unit must stop and may 

move no further that turn. In its NEXT movement phase, it may move off the block at the 
normal movement rate. 
3. No Combat Effect 
Blocks do not obstruct the Line-of-Sight and have not effect on combat. 
4. Count For Stacking 
Blocks count as one unit for stacking purposes. 
5. Never Used Up 
Blocks are never “used up”. They may only be removed by engineer units. 
6. Negates Road Movement Rate 
A block counter on a road negates the road in that hex. VEHICULAR UNITS may not 
cross adjacent green hex sides when moving into a block-road hex. 
C. FORTIFICATIONS 
(Bunkers, redoubts, “pill-boxes”, etc.) 
Fortifications may be placed anywhere within a player’s set-up area, (except swamp, sea, 
beach, or stream hexes) as directed by the situation card. Once placed, they may not be 
moved. 
2. Count For Stacking 
Fortifications, and the units in them, count as one unit for stacking purposes. 
3. Defense Strength 
Units in fortifications defend using the defense strength of the fortifications only. Their 
own defense strengths are ignored. Fortifications are treated as ARMORED targets. 
Terrain and Weapons Effectiveness are taken into account when a fortification is 
defending. Any type of unit(s) may occupy a fortification within normal stacking 
limitations (see below). 
4. Attack Strength 
Units attack from fortifications using their normal attack strength. 
5. Destruction 
If a fortification is destroyed, any units in it are also destroyed. A destroyed fortification 
counter is replaced with a single wreck counter, regardless of the number or types of units 
inside it. 
6. May Only Defend 
A fortification counter itself has no attack strength and may only defend. 

7. May Be Captured 
If abandoned or unoccupied, fortifications may be “captured” and used by the opposing 
player. To capture a fortification, simply move a unit into the unoccupied fortification 
counter. 
8. Removing 
Unwanted fortifications may only be destroyed by attacking them with one’s own fire 
weapons. 
9. No LOS Effect 
The fortification unit is not an obstacle to fire. 
In Versus On 
Units are indicated as being IN a fortification by placing them UNDER the fortification 
counter. Friendly units ON TOP of a fortification (i.e., “outside” the fortification) and the 
fortification counter, on which they are sitting, may be attacked individually or in 
combination like normal targets. 
a) Enemy Units May Be On The Fortification 
Enemy units may move on top of a fortification counter while friendly units are inside of 
it, but must stop and end all further movement. (They may move off the fortification hex 
normally in the next turn.) In this case, friendly units may fire on that hex; but the die 
must be rolled twice, once for the attack on the enemy units and then for the effect on 
friendly units in the fortification. 
b) Enemy Entry Of Fortifications 
Enemy units may not enter a fortification hex if there are friendly units ON TOP of the 
fortification. 
c) Enemy Units Block Movement 
When enemy units are on top of a fortification, friendly units inside the fortification may 
not leave nor may other friendly units enter that hex. The friendly units inside may still 
attack any enemy units within range, including the units sitting on the fortification. When 
attacking the units sitting on the fortification, the units inside attack as if they are adjacent 
to the enemy. Similarly, the enemy units may attack the fortification as if they were 
adjacent to it. The units inside, in this case, may NOT use close assault tactics. 
Stacking Limits 
Fortifications do not count against the stacking limits of units inside them. They DO, 
however, count as one unit for stacking purposes for units outside of them. Thus, it is 
conceivable that a hex containing a fortification counter may hold four units INSIDE the 
fortification and an additional three units OUTSIDE. 

Dispersal 
Fortifications may suffer “dispersal” in which case the units occupying them are 
dispersed also. 
13. 
One Per Hex 
No more than one fortification may be placed in a given hex. 
14. 
Restricts Overrun Attacks 
Armored vehicles may NOT make overrun attacks against fortifications. 
15. 
Mine And Block Restrictions 
Fortifications may NOT be placed on top of mines or blocks (or vice-versa). 
16. 
May Not Spot 
Un-occupied fortification counters (or those containing only truck or wagons) may never 
spot for other units. 
X. ENGINEERS 
Engineers may be used to clear minefields, create and remove blocks, demolish bridges 
and increase the effectiveness of CAT attacks. 
A. CLEARING MINEFIELDS 
Minefields are cleared in a four-turn process, as follows: 
1. Turn 1 
Engineer unit moves adjacent to minefield. 
2. Turn 2 
Minefield counter is inverted at the beginning of the movement phase. 
3. Turn 3 
Engineer unit moves onto minefield. 
4. Turn 4 
Minefield is removed at the beginning of the movement phase. 
5. Dispersal Of Engineer 
If the engineer unit is dispersed at any time during this sequence, the clearing process is 
temporarily halted. When that engineer unit is undispersed, the sequence is restarted at 
the step in which the dispersal took place. Once the minefield is inverted, other units 
entering that hex are still liable to the normal minefield attack until such time as the 
engineer unit removes the mine counter. 

6. Elimination Of Engineer 
If an engineer unit is eliminated during this sequence, any new engineer unit must begin 
all over again. 
7. One At A Time 
An engineer unit may only clear one minefield counter at a time. When engaged in 
minefield clearing, the engineer may not attack in any manner or load into a carrier 
vehicle. 
B. DEMOLITION AND OBSTACLES 
Other tasks require engineers to use explosives and specialized equipment, which is 
usually carried in their vehicles. Before the game, designate one truck, halftrack or other 
carrier for each engineer platoon to carry its equipment. This vehicular unit may no 
longer transport anything but it designated engineer unit. In addition, it must be in either 
the same hex or adjacent to the hex in which the engineers are performing any of the 
following: 
1. Bridge Demolition 
To destroy a bridge, an engineer unit must remain on the bridge hex for three turns. (It 
must begin and end three friendly movement phases in a row without moving out of the 
hex.) On the fourth, or any subsequent turn, it must move to an adjacent hex. As soon as 
it makes this move, the die is rolled for the bridge demolition. A die roll of 1-5 means 
that the bridge is successfully destroyed and a BLOCK counter place on that hex. It is 
then treated as an ordinary stream hex for the remainder of the game. A die roll of 6 
means that the attempt has failed. In this case, the engineer unit must move back into the 
bridge hex if another demolition attempt is desired. It executes the same procedure as 
before, but may opt to remain stationary on the bridge hex for fewer turns: 
a) 1 Turn 
1 turn on the bridge – die roll of 1 or 2 for successful demolition. 
b) 2 Turns 
2 turns on the bridge – die roll of 1-4 for success. 
c) 3 Turns 
3 turns on the bridge – die roll of 1-5 for success. 
 
If an attempt fails again, the sequence must be restarted from the beginning. An engineer 
unit may not be dispersed during any of the stationary turns, or the sequence is 
interrupted until the unit becomes dispersed again. 
2. Creating Blocks 
Within the time period of any given situation, an engineer unit may only create one block 
on one road hex. The procedure is the same as bridge demolition procedure, but when 
successful the engineer unit places a block counter on the road hex. The number of 

stationary turns required to initially create a block is two turns for a woods-road hex and 
four turns for any other type of road hex. Only one turn is required to try again if the first 
attempt fails. A die roll of 1 through 5 on the second or subsequent attempt successfully 
creates the block. 
3. Removing Blocks 
The procedure for removing a block is exactly the same as that used for clearing 
minefields. 
C. SPECIAL ENGINEER VEHICLES 
The British developed a number of specialized armored vehicle types which were given 
to the 79th Armored Division for the Normandy invasion. Three of these types are used in 
the game: 
1. Sherman Flail 
This unit performs like a normal tank unit, except that it may clear minefields. Procedure 
for doing this is: 
a) Move Into Minefield Hex 
Flail unit moves into the minefield hex and ends all movement. 
b) Leaves Minefield Hex 
In the following movement phase, the flail unit expends half of its total movement 
allowance leaving the minefield hex. 
c) Removing The Minefield 
As the flail leaves the hex, the minefield is removed from the board. Flail tanks cannot be 
harmed by minefields. 
2. Churchill Flamethrower 
This was a Churchill tank with it main armament replaced by a flamethrower for close 
range work. 
3. Valentine Bridgelayer 
This was a Valentine chassis converted to carrying a tank bridge for rapid deployment. 
Bridges are laid in the following manner: 
a) Enter Stream 
Valentine enters stream hex and ends all movement. 
b) Leaves Stream 
In the following movement phase, the Valentine expends three movement points leaving 
the stream hex. 

c) Bridge Placement 
As the Valentine leaves, the tank bridge is placed on that stream hex, which can be used 
like a permanent bridge in the same movement phase. Once emplaced, the tank bridge 
may not be relocated. NOTE: the Valentine bridge layer is the only exception to the rule 
forbidding vehicular units to enter stream hexes. 
4. Destroying Temporary Bridges 
a) Engineers 
Engineer units may destroy temporary bridges in the same manner as permanent bridges 
except that the engineers are required to remain on the bridge for only TWO consecutive 
turns. In the third turn, the engineers move to an adjacent hex and the temporary bridge is 
automatically destroyed. NOTE: No block counter is placed in the hex. 
b) Artillery 
Combat units may destroy temporary bridges by gunfire by using direct or indirect fire. 
“I”-type weapons may not be used to destroy bridges. 
5. Ignored For Combat 
Temporary bridges must be ignored for combat purposes if any other units in the hex are 
being attacked. 
6. Attacking Temporary Bridges 
When attacked by themselves, using the special defensive strengths printed on the bridge 
counters, temporary bridges are destroyed if an “X” outcome is rolled on the Combat 
Results Table. Any other result means “no effect”. 
7. Indirect Attacks 
If a temporary bridge is attacked by indirect fir, other units in the hex are ignored, but the 
attack strength of the indirectly firing units is HALVED automatically. (Bridges are very 
difficult targets to hit and destroy.) 
8. Affect Of Destroying Temporary Bridge On Vehicles 
If the temporary bridge is destroyed by direct or indirect fire, any vehicular units (and 
their passengers) in that hex are destroyed. Non-vehicular units are unaffected. Do NOT 
place wreck counters in this situation. 
9. Artillery And Permanent Bridges 
Permanent bridges may not be attacked or destroyed by artillery fire. 
XI. AMPHIBIOUS LANDINGS 
The following rules are used in those situations depicting Allied landings in Normandy: 

A. SET-UP PROCEDURE 
1. Fortifications, Blocks, and Mines 
German player places all of his allotted fortification, block and minefield counters on the 
mapboard as designated by the situation card. 
2. Secretly Record Landings 
Allied player secretly records the turn of landing and the coordinate of the initial 
placement hex for each of his units. (When using the optional naval support fire, the 
Allied player writes any indirect fire orders for the first TWO game turns at this point.) 
3. Remaining German Units 
German player then places his remaining units on the mapboard. 
B. ALLIED INITIAL SEA HEX PLACEMENT 
1. No Landing Craft 
No “landing craft” units are provided on the counter sheets. Instead, Allied units are 
inverted and placed on the first sea hex adjacent to the beach hex on which they intend to 
land. 
2. One Unit Per Hex 
Only ONE Allied unit may be placed on each sea hex. 
3. Passenger And Carriers 
Units with a movement allowance of “0” must be “paired” with carrier-type units. DO 
NOT place the carrier units with the passenger units on the sea hexes. Place on the 
passenger unit on the sea hexes. Carrier units are positioned on top of their passenger 
units when such units move onto the beach hexes in the following movement phase. 
(They are presumed to be already loaded.) 
C. BEACH LANDING 
1. Move Landed Units First 
All Allied units on land hexes are movd before units on sea hexes are moved onto beach 
hexes. 
2. Must Move Onto Beach Hexes 
In the turn following the initial placement, all units on sea hexes must move onto beach 
hexes. Units that cannot move onto beach hexes because of stacking limitations are 
eliminated instead. 
3. Dispersed Units 
Units previously dispersed by German fire may land on the adjacent beach hes, but may 
move no further in that movement phase. 

4. Undispersed Units 
Undispersed units are turned face up and may move onto beach hexes and continue 
normal movement to the limits of their movement allowances. 
5. Occupied Beach Hex 
If a unit moves from a sea hex to a beach hex already occupied by a friendly unit, all 
units in that hex are dispersed. No additional penalties accrue against units previously 
dispersed. 
D. GERMAN FIRE 
1. Targeting Sea Hex 
When firing at Allied units on sea hexes, the German player must allocate all firing units 
that are attacking a particular target before that target unit is turned face up and the 
combat resolved. 
2. Marking Dispersed Units 
Allied units that are dispersed while on sea hexes are not inverted. Instead, to avoid 
confusion, indicate dispersed units by temporarily placing a spare “Spotted” marker on 
top of them. When dispersed units are moved to beach hexes, the “Spotted” marker is 
removed and the units remain inverted. 
3. Provisional Defense Strength 
All Allied units (except DD tanks) on sea hexes are assigned a provisional defensive 
strength of “8”, representing the defensive strength of the landing craft carrying them, 
and are treated as ARMORED targets for WEC purposes. 
4. DD Tanks 
DD (amphibious) tanks retain their normal defensive strength wile on sea hexes. 
SPECIAL: When attacking DD tanks on sea hexes, the German player must add “2” to 
the die roll, reflecting the difficulty in hitting such targets in the water. Each DD tank 
must roll one die for survival as per the instructions in the individual scenarios. This is 
done in the turn AFTER placement on the sea hexes BEFORE any other units are moved 
onto beach hexes. 
5. After Landing 
After landing on beach hexes, Allied units revert to their normal defensive capabilities. 
XII. AIRPOWER 
Two types of tactical aircraft are represented in the game: fighter-bombers (P-47 
Thunderbolts and British Typhoons), and light observation aircraft (the L-5). Because of 
the space-time scale of the game, the aircraft units perform in a rather abstract manner. 
Each aircraft counter is equivalent to one airplane. 

A. MOVEMENT 
1. Air Phase 
Aircraft units move, undergo AA attacks, and resolve combat during the air phase of a 
2. Unlimited Movement Range 
Aircraft have unlimited movement capabilities; they may move anywhere on the 
mapboard in one turn. Terrain has no effect on aircraft movement. 
3. Entry And Exit 
Aircraft units enter and exit the mapboard as indicated in the individual situation rules. 
Aircraft may leave before the end of the game, but once exited, they may never return. 
B. OBSERVATION AIRCRAFT (L-5) 
1. Indirect Fire Sighting 
L-5 observation aircraft are used to sight enemy units to fulfill indirect fire sighting 
requirements. 
2. Sighting Range 
L-5 units may sight enemy units in clear terrain to a range of thirty (30) hexes. Enemy 
units in woods and town hexes that fire may be sighted if the L-5 is within ten (10) hexes 
of the firing unit. 
3. Must Remain In Sighting Range 
As with ground units sighting for indirect fire, the L-5 must be within range of the target 
unit from the time the indirect fire order is written until it is executed in the following 
turn. 
C. FIGHTER-BOMBERS 
1. Weapons 
Fighter-bombers (FBs) have three different types of direct fire weapons systems: 
machine guns, air-to-ground rockets, and bombs. Fighter-bomber attacks are executed in 
the air phase of the player segment. 
2. Executing Attacks 
Fighter-bomber attacks are executed by moving the FB unit to a hex adjacent to the target 
hex, undergoing AA attack, if any, and resolving combat. All aircraft attacks are executed 
as direct fire attacks. 
a) Only Once 
A particular target hex may be attacked only once per air phase. 

b) Combined Attacks 
All aircraft unit attacking a single target hex must total their attack strengths and resolve 
the attack with a single roll of the die. 
3. Weapons Characteristics 
The following char illustrates the armament each FB unit could possibly carry (the exact 
armament is given in the individual situations): 
 
ATTACK STRENGTH 
TYPE OF WEAPON 
Typhoon 
P-47 
Machine Guns 
2(I) 
3(I) 
Bombs (2x1000lbs.) 
30(H) 
30(H) 
Rockets (8-10 x 15 inch) 
20(A) 
20(A) 
 
a) WEC 
All WEC effects apply to aircraft in the same manner as ground units: “A” weapons are 
normal for armored targets and halved against non-armored target, “H” weapons are 
normal against non-armored targets and halved against armored targets, and “I” weapons 
are normal against non-armored targets and ineffective against armored targets. 
b) Individual Or Stack Targets 
Bob and rocket attacks may be made against single units in a stack or combinations of 
units as in regular direct fire. 
c) Only One Type Of Weapon Per Aircraft Per 
Attack 
An FB unit may not attack with machine guns in the same air phase in which it conducts 
a bomb or rocket attack. 
d) Multi-Aircraft Attacks 
Machine gun strength points may be combined with bomb and rocket attacks so long as 
an aircraft unit involved in the attack does not do both. 
e) Number Of Attacks Per Game By Weapon 
Each FB unit may conduct bomb or rocket attacks only once per game. It may fire its 
machine guns only four times per game. A side record must be maintained to verify FB 
employment. 
f) May Sight 
FB units may sight targets in the same manner as the L-5 aircraft. They may not, 
however, sight (or spot) targets for ground units, but only for other FB units. Thus, FB 
units cannot be used to sight targets for indirect fire, but if one FB unit sights a target, all 
FB units presently on the board may attack it. 

D. ANTI-AIRCRAFT DEFENSE (AA) 
1. Anti-Aircraft Attacks 
Anti-aircraft fire is a type of direct fire attack initiated in the Allied player’s air phase, 
before FB units execute their attacks. AA fire is resolved in a similar manner to regular 
direct fire, except that AA Table and Procedures are used instead of the normal CRT. 
2. Only Certain Weapons May AA Attack 
Only German 20mm, 20(4)mm, 37mm, and Wirbelwind units may initiate direct fire AA 
attacks against aircraft. 
3. Executing AA Attacks 
AA attacks are executed in the same manner as regular attacks with these exceptions: 
a) LOS Requirements 
The LOS requirements are modified as in XII.B.3 above. 
b) Non-Armored Targets 
All aircraft are considered non-armored targets. 
c) Doubling Attack Strength 
The attack strengths of AA guns are doubled if attacking half range or less. 
4. Tracking Fired AA Units 
Place a blank counter on those AA units that fire to indicate that they may not attack or 
move in the German player’s segment. 
5. AA Table 
See AA Table for further clarifications. 
XIII. SUMMARY OF TURN SEQUENCE 
A. ALLIED PLAYER SEGMENT 
1. COMBAT PHASE 
a) IF Orders 
Allied player writes indirect fire orders for next turn. 
b) Minefield Attacks 
Allied player resolves any minefield attacks against German units. 

c) IF Attacks 
Allied player resolves all indirect fire attacks. All units that fire are inverted to signify 
that they may not move or load in the current player segment. 
d) DF Attacks 
Allied player resolves all direct fire attacks. All units that fire are inverted to signify that 
they may not move or load in the current player segment. 
2. AIR PHASE 
a) Movement 
Allied player moves all aircraft units. 
b) AA Attacks 
German player executes AA attacks. Blank counters are placed on firing units to signify 
that they may not fire, move, or load in the German’s next player segment. 
c) Aircraft Attacks 
Allied player resolves all aircraft attacks. 
3. MOVEMENT PHASE 
a) Vehicular Units 
Allied player moves as many face-up VEHICULAR units as he desires, executing any 
overrun attacks as he does so. 
b) Non-Vehicular Units 
Allied player moves any face-up NON-VEHICULAR units. 
4. CLOSE ASSAULT PHASE 
Allied player executes close assault attacks using any face-up infantry-type untis that did 
not unload in the current player segment. 
5. Face-Up 
All inverted Allied units are turned face-up. 
B. GERMAN PLAYER SEGMENT 
1. REPEAT ALLIED STEPS 
German player repeats “1” through “5” (except he has no air phase) using his own units. 

2. TURN INDICATION 
Indicate the passage of one complete game turn on the Turn Record Track. Players repeat 
“A” and “B” for each turn for as many turns as the situation card indicates or until on 
player concedes defeat. 
XIV. USING THE SITUATION CARDS 
Each of the twenty situations is a complete game. Each game depicts a fact of an actual 
battle that occurred in Europe between D-Day and V-E Day. The situations are organized 
in chronological order. It is suggested that players begin with those situations using fewer 
units. 
A. GENERAL ORGANIZATION 
Each situation is organized in the following format: 
1. Historical Description 
Gives the name of the battle, background, and the units involved. 
2. Mapboard Orientation Diagram 
Illustrates the correct placement of the geomorphic mapboards. Use the “NORTH” 
marker to orient placement of units, etc. 
3. Available Forces 
Illustrates the units to be used for each side. Whenever a number preceded by a 
multiplication sign appears below a unit’s picture (e.g. “x6”), the side in question 
receives the stated quantity of that particular unit type. 
4. Set-up 
States the order in which each side sets up and restrictions on unit placement (if any). 
5. Special Rules 
Rules applicable ONLY to the situation in question are outlined in this section. 
6. Victory Conditions 
Provide the criterion for assessing victory. The terms “marginal”, “tactical”, and 
“decisive” are qualitative expressions provided to judge the degree of victory or defeat. 
Players may eventually discover that one side or the other possesses such strong 
advantages that a marginal victory by the opposing side becomes a significant 
achievement. These qualitative expressions are useful in determining individual levels of 
victory. Players will find that experience will shift the qualitative aspects of victory from 
the criterion stated in the situation such that a “draw” result, for example, will represent a 
superior effort by an underdog player. 

7. Turn Record Track 
Us this track to record the passage of turns by advancing the “Turn Now” counter at the 
end of every complete turn. 
B. GENERAL RULES FOR THE SITUATIONS 
1. Outer Half-Hexes 
The half-hexes around the exterior mapboard edge are playable for all purposes. 
2. Inner Half-Hexes 
For SET-UP and VICTORY CONDITION purposes, however, half-hexes are not 
playable. That is, if one side is required to set-up on an entire board section, it may not 
set-up on half-hexes of that board which would be, by extension, part of the adjacent 
board. Likewise, victory conditions requiring units to be on a certain board section are 
not fulfilled if such units are on the half-hexes of that mapboard section which also 
extend into the adjacent section. 
3. Entry And Placement When Specified 
Unist must enter, or be placed on, the mapboard when indicated. Units may not exit the 
mapboard unless specifically indicated. Units in violation of this rule are considered 
eliminated for victory purposes. 
4. Set-up Out Of LOS 
The side that sets-up last (usually the “offensive” player) must initially place units such 
that they are out of the LOS/LOF of, or unspotted by, enemy units unless otherwise 
specifically indicated. 
5. Naval IF Orders 
Only NAVAL indirect fire may be pre-recorded before the beginning of a game 
(specifically in situations No. 2 and No. 3) for the first two turns of the game. Otherwise, 
NO indirect fire targets may be selected until the beginning of the combat phase of the 
first game turn. 
6. FB Armament 
In those situations utilizing Allied airpower, the Allied play must indicate the type of 
armament (bombs or rockets) his FB units will carry. This selection is announced prior to 
the setting-up of any units unless the armament is dictated by the situation’s special rules. 
7. Controlling Victory Objectives 
In many of the situations, the victory conditions require one side or the other to “control” 
specific geographic locations: DEFINITION: Control of Town or Bridge Hexes: 
a) Town Hex 
A side controls a TOWN HEX if at least one friendly unit occupies, or is the last to enter 
or pass through, that town hex. 

b) Bridge Hex 
A side controls a BRIDGE HEX if at least one friendly unit occupies, or is the last to 
enter or pass through, that bridge hex AND at least one hex on each side of the stream 
that is also ADJACENT to that bridge hex. 
c) Town 
Control of a TOWN requires that ALL town hexes in that town be controlled. 
d) Dispersed Units 
Dispersal does not affect a unit’s ability to control a hex. 
8. Trucks, Wagons, Empty Fortifications, And Temporary 
Bridges Do Not Count 
Trucks, wagons, empty fortifications, and temporary bridge counters may NOT control 
hexes. Also, these unit types do not count in any way for victory determination either for 
units destroyed, or units occupying certain mapboard sections. 
9. GRANCELLES 
GRANCELLES, the largest town on board section A, consists of all town hexes on both 
sides of the stream for victory condition purposes. 
C. THE MAPBOARD LOCATION SYSTEM 
The letters running down the length of each of the four mapboard sections identify each 
particular ROW of hexes running across the short width of that section. The individual 
hexes in that row are identified by counting the number of hexes (starting with and 
including the hex with the row-letter in it). To identify a given hex on the map (regardless 
of configuration) give the section letter first, row-letter second, and the hex number last. 
Thus, “A-Q-10” is the hexagon on the “A” board section containing the town of KUHN, 
the board section letter “A” is in hex “A-R-6”. In some mapboard configurations, the 
row-letters of two boards will be in the same hex (two half-hexes joined together); those 
hexes may be identified as belonging to either section. 
XV. OPTIONAL RULES 
Players may employ as many or as few of the Optional Rules as desired. 
A. INFANTRY QUICK-TIME SPEED 
Any infantry-type unit (non-MG or mortar) may increase its spead to two hexes for one 
movement phase with the following limitations: 
1. Terrain Restrictions 
The unit may not enter sloope, woods, stream, or town hexes (moving out of is 
permitted). Moving along a road negates the above restrictions. 

2. May Not Combine Road Movement Rate And QT 
Units using Quick-time speed may not also use the road movement rate (i.e., they may 
not move four hexes). 
3. Defense Strength 
If fired on by opportunity fire (see below) while moving, the unit defends at half defense 
strength. 
4. Dispersal 
At the end of its movement (and AFTER Opportunity Fire attacks) the unit must roll one 
die. A 4, 5, or 6 means it is dispersed until the end of the current player segment. Units 
already dispersed accrue no additional penalty if dispersed again. 
B. OPPORTUNITY FIRE 
1. Moving While In LOS 
Any enemy unit that expends ¼ (rounded DOWN) or more of its movement allowance 
continuously in LOS of a friendly unit may be attacked by that unit using direct fire 
attack techniques. 
2. Only One OF Attack Per Attacking Unit 
Each firing unit may attack only once per enemy movement phase. 
3. OF Attack Indication 
Units that fire in the enemy movement phase are not inverted. Instead, place 
“Opportunity Fire” counters on top of these units signifying that they may not fire or 
move in the next friendly player segment. The counters are removed at the end of the 
next player segment. 
4. When Attack May Occur 
As an enemy unit moves through the LOS of a friendly unit, it may be fired upon by that 
unit as it enters that hex which constitutes ¼ of its movement allowance expended in the 
friendly LOS (or any hex therafter which is also in the LOS of the friendly unit). At that 
point, the non-moving player announces an opportunity fire attack. The enemy unit’s 
movement is halted and the attack is immediately resolved. If the unit is dispersed, it is 
inverted and ends all movement. If the attack has not effect, the unit may resume its 
normal movement. 
5. Moving Into Woods And Town Hexes 
Movement points expended by the enemy unit moving into forest and town hexes that are 
in the firing unit’s LOS do NOT count unless the target is SPOTTED by a friendly unit as 
it does so. 

6. Multiple OF Attacks 
An enemy unit may be attacked more than once during each enemy movement phase if 
that unit expends ¼ of its movement allowance in the LOS of EACH attacking unit. 
7. Unloading Passenger Units 
Passenger units that are unloaded in a target hex may also be attacked using opportunity 
fire. In this case, the moving player must first state whether or not the passenger unit is 
being unloaded in that hex BEFORE the firing player announces an opportunity fire 
attack in that hex. 
8. OF Attacks Against German Armored Passengers 
Units being transported on German armored units may be attacked exclusive of the 
carrier unit. 
9. OF Attacks Only Against Units That Move 
Enemy units that do not move may NOT be attacked by opportunity fire even if they are 
in the LOS of friendly units. 
Overrun Attacks And OF 
Enemy units conducting overrun attacks may not be fired upon while in the hex occupied 
by the friendly unit being overrun. 
Moving Into Hexes With Other Units 
Opportunity fire attacks against units moving into hexes (including town hexes) 
containing other units may NOT be directed against those other units in the hex. In this 
special case, those other units are ignored. 
Units Designated For OF Fire 
Units designated for indirect fire attacks in the next friendly combat phase may not use 
opportunity fire. 
13. 
Dispersal 
Units dispersed by opportunity fire remain dispersed until the end of their CURRENT 
C. NAVAL SUPPORT FIRE 
Some situations provide naval support fire for the Allied player. This will be in the form 
of a specified number of naval attack strength points per turn. 
1. DF Or IF 
Naval fire may be used in two ways. As direct fire against targets in the open that can be 
seen directly from any sea hex or as indirect fire with a ground unit sighting (or spotting). 
Naval indirect fire attacks must be written down TWO turns in advance. 

2. Combined With Ground Based Fire 
Direct naval and ground fire may be combined into one attack strength during the combat 
phase. Indirect naval fire may be combined with indirect ground fire. 
3. (H) Weapon Type 
All naval fire is (H) class and must be used in groups of 20 attack strength points, 
minimum. 
4. Unlimited Range 
Naval fire has unlimited range, but is always presumed to be firing at ranges greater than 
six hexes. 
D. PANZERBLITZ ASSAULT 
German infantry units on armored vehicles may “jump off” in the hex immediately in 
front of a unit about to be overrun by those armored vehicles. The infantry may then 
close assault the units which were just overrun by the vehicles during the CAT phase. 
XVI. EXPERIMENTAL RULES 
The following optional rules are termed “experimental” because their application to game 
situations could unpredictably alter game balance and “flow”. Nevertheless, they do add 
interesting dimensions to play and enliven situations that, with repeated play, could 
become stereotyped. 
A. FUNCTIONAL MOBILITY FOR TURRETED AFV’S 
To further differentiate the mechanical and operational advantages of the turreted tank 
versus assault guns and other self-propelled weapons, employ the following rules: 
1. Attack And Move 
Allied and German turreted armored vehicles may use their attack strength in the combat 
phase and move up to half of their movement allowance (rounded DOWN) in the 
movement phase of the same player segment. 
a) Indicating Turreted AFV Use 
Units that fire are inverted as usual, but during the movement phase those units that move 
are turned face-up and execute half of their movement allowance. 
b) German Units May Load Or Unload 
German tank units that fire in the combat phase may either move half of their movement 
allowance or load/unload. They may not do both, however. 
2. May Not Combine With Overrun Or Panzerblitz Assault 
Tank units that fire and move in the same player segment may not make overrun or 
“panzer assault” attacks during that same movement phase. 

3. OF Fire 
Tanks using opportunity fire in the previous enemy movement phase are considered to 
have fired in their own combat phase for purposes of this rule. 
4. Unit Function Table 
See the Unit Function Table for a precise listing of which unit types may exercise this 
rule. 
B. ARTILLERY FIELD-OF-FIRE LIMITATIONS 
Artillery pieces are not very mobile once they are emplaced for firing. Therefore the 
following rule section restricts the direction in which artillery units can fire: 
1. Non-Movable Artillery Units 
Non-mortar artillery types with a movement allowance of “0” may only fire at targets that 
are within their “field-of-fire”. 
2. Field-Of-Fire 
A unit’s field-of-fire consists of thos hexes within an area radiating from the “front” three 
hex sides towards which the unit is facing. Facing is determined by position of the 
weapon-symbol on the unit counter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Face One Specific Hex Side 
Artillery unit counters must be faced towards one specific hex side. Ambiguously 
positioned counters may be adjusted to a specific hex side by the opposing player! 
4. Changing FOF 
Artillery units may adjust their facing to any other hex side during the movement phase 
of their player segment. 

a) May Not Fire 
Units that fire in the combat phase of their player segment may NOT change their facing. 
b) Carrier Requirements 
An artillery unit of 88mm or larger (EXCEPT 25 lber) may only change facing if there is 
a carrier-type unit in the same hex at the beginning of the movement phase. (There must 
be one carrier unit for each separate artillery unit). 
c) No Carrier Requirements 
An artillery unit of less than 99mm (including 25 lber) does not need a carrier-type unit in 
the same hex to change facing. 
5. Unit Function Table 
See the Unit Function Table for a precise listing of which unit types must abide by these 
field-of-fire rules. 
C. SMOKE SHELL CONCENTRATIONS (SSC) 
1. IF Capable Units 
Those artillery weapons with indirect fire capabilities (EXCEPT Maultier and 
Nebelwerfer) may fire “smoke” shell concentrations (SSCs) in order to obstruct the 
LOS/LOF traced through certain target hexes. 
a) Minimum Of 25 Attack Strength Points 
SSCs are executed in the same manner as any other type of direct or indirect attack, but a 
minimum of 25 attack strength points must be fired into the hex to obstruct the 
LOS/LOF. 
b) Not Against Friendly Hexes 
SSCs may not be fired into hexes occupied by friendly units. 
c) Not Against Water Hexes 
SSCs may not be fired into sea, stream (including those crossed by bridges), or swamp 
hexes. 
d) Do Not Affect Enemy Units In Target Hex 
SSCs have no effect on enemy units that may be in the target hex. 
e) Not As OF 
SSCs may not be fired as part of an opportunity fire attack. 

f) Not Against IF Or DF Attacked Hexes 
SSCs may not be fired into a hex that undergoes a regular direct or indirect fire attack in 
the same combat phase. (Note, however, that regular fire could be directed at a hex 
containing an SSC in subsequent turns.) 
2. Duration 
An SSC lasts for two consecutive turns after which it is dissipated. 
a) SSC Indication 
Indicate those hexes receiving SSCs by placing a HEADS-UP coin in each one of as they 
are fired upon. 
b) Turn 1 
At the beginning of the first friendly combat phase after firing, all HEADS-UP coins 
presently on the mapboard are flipped over. 
c) Turn 2 
At the beginning of the second friendly combat phase after firing, all TAILS-UP coins 
are removed, signaling the dissipation of the smoke shell concentration. 
d) Both Sides And SSCs 
If both sides are using smoke shells, it is suggested that two different denominations of 
coins be used. 
3. Effects 
a) Obstructs LOS/LOF At All Elevations 
SSCs obstruct the LOS/LOF through the target hex at ALL elevations. By way of 
example, picture a solid column of dense smoke 250 meters wide extending vertically 
from the target hex to an altitude of several hundred meters. This obstruction also 
includes air-to-ground sightings if airpower is employed. 
b) Any Part Of The Hex Obstructs LOS/LOF 
The LOS/LOF from a firing unit’s hex to a target hex is obstructed if the straight line 
traced from hex-dot to hex-dot intersects any part of the SSC target hex. 
c) Firing Into Or Out Of SSC Hex 
The LOS/LOF is not blocked for units firing into or out of hexes containing SSCs, but 
such hexes must be spotted to be fired upon. (In effect, for LOS/LOF purposes, SSC 
hexes function like “unusually tall” town hexes.) 
4. Firing SSCs Just Like DF Or IF Attacks 
Firing SSCs is the same as a regular direct or indirect fire attack and places the same 
types of restrictions on these firing units as any other type of attack. 

5. No Effect On Movement 
Smoke shell concentrations have no effect upon movement. 
6. Repeated SSC Attacks 
SSCs may be fired into a hex as often as desired to, in effect, create a continuous 
LOS/LOF obstruction. 
7. SSC Attacks May Be DF Or IF 
Even though only weapons with indirect fire capabilities may fire SSCs, they may be 
fired directly or indirectly.