EXAMPLE FOR SCORING
The numbers in parentheses () show the value of the cards.
ALICE
3 Red cards (10, 8, 3), 5 Blue cards (9, 7, 6, 5, 0), 1 Purple card (0), 2 Green cards (4, 
2), 3 Grey cards (7, 4, 0).
Alice owns the largest number of blue and grey cards. 
Her points are calculated as follows:
	
Red: 10+8+3 = 	
	
Blue: 5 cards *(1) = 	
	
Purple: 0 = 	
	
Green: 4+2 = 	
	
Grey: 3 cards *(1) = 	
	
Total: = 	
35 points
THE HATTER
2 Red cards (1, 0), 1 Blue card (8), 4 Purple cards (8, 7, 5, 3), 
3 Grey cards (9, 8, 1), 2 Orange cards (10, 1). 
The Hatter owns the largest number of purple and grey cards.
His points are:
	
Red: 1+0 = 	
	
Blue: 8 = 	
	
Purple: 4 cards *(1) = 	 4
	
Grey: 3 cards *(1) = 	
	
Orange: 10 + 1 = 	
	
Total: 	
27 points
CHESHIRE
4 Red cards(7, 6, 5, 2), 2 Blue cards (4, 3), 2 Purple cards (2, 1), 
4 Green cards (9, 8, 7, 6), 1 Grey card (10), 3 Orange cards (3, 2, 0)
Cheshire has the majority for the red, green and orange cards. 
His points are:
	
Red: 4 cards *(1) = 	
	
Blue: 4 + 3 = 	
	
Purple: 2+1 = 	
	
Green 4 cards *(1) = 	 4
	
Grey: 10 = 	
	
Orange: 3 cards *(1) = 	3
	
Total: = 	
31 points
THE HATTER WINS THE GAME.
RULES FOR 2 PLAYERS
The only rule change is determining majority for scoring purposes. A player has 
majority only if he has 2 or more cards of a color than the other player.
The parade has started in Wonderland. Everybody 
is dressed up, the streets are decorated, excitement 
is in the air. Let’s find more people to join the 
parade. You are one of the organizers of the parade 
and are constantly trying your best to encourage 
people to join. If only the people already taking 
part didn’t leave so early… After a short while 
they simply lose all interest in the parade. And 
if somebody shows up with the same dress or 
of higher rank, all they do is leave the parade 
immediately and complain to you. You just want 
everybody to have fun, but why is that so difficult?
Designer: Naoki Homma 
Card Illustrations: Chris Quilliams 
Development: Team Z-Man Games
©2008 naoki homma / GRIMPEUR, Inc. 
©2013, 2015 F2Z Entertainment Inc. 
31 rue de la Coopérative 
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 
Canada
info@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com

GOAL OF THE GAME
Players play their hand of cards while trying not to get any cards from the parade. 
Nobody wants points in Wonderland.
GAME COMPONENTS
66 cards in 6 colors (with values ranging from 0 to 10), 1 score pad
PREPARATION OF THE PARADE
The start player is determined randomly. Starting with the start player, the game 
continues clockwise. The start player shuffles the deck and deals each player 5 cards 
face down. 6 more cards are placed face up next to each other in the middle of the 
table. These cards are the initial participants of the parade. The game box is placed 
at one end of the parade to mark the front of the parade. The other side is called the 
end of the parade. The remaining cards are placed face down as the draw pile in the 
middle of the table.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
During his turn, a player performs the following actions in the order given below.
1. Choose one of the cards in your hand and lay it at the end of the parade.
2. If necessary, cards will be removed from the parade and laid in front of the 
player.
3. Draw a card from the draw pile.
The next player performs the same actions during his turn.
EXPLANATION OF THE ACTIONS
1. The player chooses one of the cards in his hand and places it face up at the end of 
the parade. This card does not count when totaling the number of cards in the next 
action.
2. Depending on which card is played, some cards have to be removed from the 
parade.
If the number of cards already taking part in the parade is less than or equal to the 
value of the played card, no cards have to be removed from the parade. 
If the number of cards already taking part is larger than the value of the played card 
then some cards might leave the parade. 
To determine which cards might have to be removed, start numbering the cards 
from the end of the parade down towards the front, not taking into account the card 
that was just played. Every card with a position number larger than the value of the 
played card enters the “removal mode”.
To determine which cards in removal mode have to leave, remove the cards that 
follow these rules: 
-All cards with the same color as the played card
-All cards with a value less than or equal to the value of the played card 
(see the example below.)
The removed cards are laid face up and divided into colors in front of the player. The 
values of all cards must be visible for all players, so it is best to lay them slightly shifted 
on top of each other.
The remaining cards in the parade are moved forward towards the front of the parade 
to close the gaps.
If a card with the value 0 is played, all cards enter removal mode.
3. The player draws a card from the draw pile to replenish his hand to 5 cards.
LAST ROUND AND END OF THE GAME
The last round starts when a player has collected cards of all 6 colors, or if the draw 
pile is exhausted.
If a player has collected the 6th color, she finishes her turn as before. After that, every 
player, including the one who collected the 6th color, plays one more turn. However, 
the players do not draw a card from the draw pile.
The game ends after this last round.
If the draw pile is exhausted, every player plays one more turn. The game ends when 
everybody has only 4 cards left in their hand.
Even if other players get their 6th color during the last round, this has no further 
effect. The games ends after the round.
SCORING
After the end of the game each player chooses 2 cards from their hand and discards 
them. The remaining 2 cards in hand are added to those already in front of the player. 
Note: Each of these 2 cards will either be added to colors you already own, or create a new 
pile (if you do not already have any cards of that color).
Only the cards lying in front of a player are scored. The cards still taking part in the 
parade are discarded.
For each color, players must determine the number of points they score. Each color is 
dealt with separately.
1. Determine who has the majority in each color. The player or players with the 
most cards in each color flip those cards over and each of these cards counts as 
1 point. (The value printed on the cards is not counted.) 
2. Each player will then add up the printed values of all their face up cards. Sum up 
this total with the total obtained from any face down cards. 
WINNER
Wonderland, being a little topsy-turvy, the winner is the player with 
the lowest score. In case of a tie, the tied player with the fewest number of cards 
in front of herself (flipped and face up) wins the game.
A card (Green-3) is played from the hand and laid at the end of the parade. Since the card 
value is 3, you ignore the next three cards as they are unaffected by the card that was just 
played. The remaining four cards are available to be removed and here is what is taken by 
the player.
All cards with the same color as the played card: the Green-0 and Green-7 cards have to be 
removed.
All cards with a value less than or equal to the value of the played card: the Red-3 card has 
to be removed.
Remember, you only remove cards that are in “removal mode”.
Direction of the parade
Removal mode 
Not affected
End
EXAMPLE