Setup
Course of Play
In this game, you do not necessarily alternate between turns. The player whose ti me token is the furthest 
behind on the ti me board takes his turn. This may result in a player taking multi ple turns in a row before 
his opponent can take one. 
If both ti me tokens are on the same space, the player whose token is on top goes ﬁ rst.
It is the lime green player’s turn. Un-
less her ti me token moves more than 
3 spaces forward, she may immedia-
tely take another turn.
The lime green player moves her ti me token 
4 spaces forward so that it is now in front of 
the yellow ti me token. She receives 4 butt ons 
for that.
A: Advance and Receive Butt ons
Move your ti me token on the ti me board so that it occupies the space directly in front of your opponent’s 
ti me token. You receive 1 butt on (i.e. a butt on ti le of value 1) per space you moved your ti me token.
B: Take and Place a Patch
This acti on consists of 5 steps that must be carried out in the given order:
1. Choose a Patch
You can choose from the three patches in front of the neutral token (in clockwise order).
In this example, you can choose from the 
3 marked patches. You cannot choose 
any other patch at the moment.
2. Move the Neutral Token
Place the neutral token next to the chosen patch.
3. Pay for the Patch
Pay the depicted number of butt ons to the supply.
4. Place the Patch on Your Quilt Board
The patches on your quilt board may not 
overlap. You may turn the patch any way you 
like before placing it on your quilt board.
The label indica-
tes the number of 
butt ons to pay for 
the patch.
Place the (regular) 
patches in a circle or 
oval around the ti me 
board.
Now you are 
ready to go!
Each player takes a quilt board, a ti me token and 
5 butt ons (as currency). Keep the remaining butt ons 
on the table close at hand.
On your turn, you carry out one of the following acti ons:
A: Advance and Receive Butt ons
or
B: Take and Place a Patch
Place the central 
ti me board in the 
middle of the table.
Place your ti me tokens on 
the starti ng space of the 
ti me board.
The player who last used a 
needle begins.
Locate the smallest patch, i.e. the 
patch of size 1x2, and place the 
neutral token between this patch 
and the next patch in clockwise 
order.
Lay out the 
special ti le.
Place the special 
patches on the 
marked spaces of 
the ti me board.

Patchwork is a form of needlework that involves sewing together pieces of fabric into a larger design. In the 
past, it was a way to make use of left over pieces of cloth to create clothing and quilts. Today, patchwork is a 
form of art, in which the designers use precious fabrics to create beauti ful texti les. The use of uneven pieces of 
fabric in parti cular can result in real masterpieces and is therefore being practi ced by a large number of texti le 
arti sts.
To create a beauti ful quilt, however, requires eﬀ ort and ti me, but the available patches just do not want to ﬁ t 
together. So choose your patches carefully and keep a healthy supply of butt ons to not only ﬁ nish your quilt, but 
to make it bett er and more beauti ful than your opponent‘s.
5. Move Your Time Token
Move your ti me token on the ti me board 
by a number of spaces as depicted on the 
label.
If your ti me token ends up on the same 
space as your opponent‘s ti me token, 
place your token on top of it.
This patch requires you 
move your ti me token by 
2 spaces.
Regardless of the acti on you take, you always move your ti me token on the ti me board. Some spaces 
of the ti me board are marked. Whenever you move onto or past one of those spaces, resolve the 
corresponding event:
Special Patch:
Take the special patch and place it on your quilt board immediately. 
The special patches are the only way to “patch” single spaces of your 
quilt board.
Butt on Income:
You receive a number 
of butt ons according to 
the patches on your quilt 
board.
You will receive 2 butt ons for 
this patch every ti me you receive 
butt on income.
The game ends aft er both ti me tokens reach the last space of the ti me board. If a ti me token were to 
move past the last space, it simply stops on the last space. In case of acti on A, you only receive butt ons 
for the actual number of spaces moved.
Determine the number of butt ons you have left , adding the value of the special ti le if available. 
From this score, subtract 2 points for each empty space of your quilt board. 
The player with the highest score wins. In case of a ti e, the player who got to the ﬁ nal space of the 
ti me board ﬁ rst wins.
Example:
Doris and Andrea are playing. At the end of the game, Doris has 14 butt ons left and she got the special 
ti le. There are 5 empty spaces left on her quilt board. Her ﬁ nal score is 11 points. 
(14 + 7 – 10 (5x2) = 11)
Andrea has 18 butt ons left and only 2 empty spaces on her quilt board. She wins with 14 points.
The Time Board
Scoring
End of the Game
Components
1 central ti me board 
(two-sided; the two 
sides only diﬀ er in 
appearance - choose 
the one you like bett er)
Uwe Rosenberg
Stefan Stadler & Rolf Raupach 
Klemens Franz | atelier198
Grzegorz Kobiela
Designer:
Editors:
Graphic Design:
Translati on:
2 quilt boards
(1 per player)
1 neutral token
1 special ti le
ti me tokens (lime green and yellow)
5 special patches (leather patches)
butt on ti les
32 “1 butt on” ti les
12 “5 butt ons” ti les
 5 “10 butt ons” ti les
 1 “20 butt ons” ti le
33 patches
The ﬁ rst player to completely ﬁ ll a 7x7 square of spaces on his quilt 
board receives the special ti le, which is worth 7 points.
The Special Tile
MAYFAIR GAMES
www.mayfairgames.com
Mayfair Games, Inc
8060 St. Louis Ave.
Skokie, IL 60076
© 2014 Lookout GmbH
Hiddigwarder Straße 37,
D- 27804 Berne, Germany.