GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
1.0 Introduction.............................. 2 
2.0 Components............................... 2 
	 2.1 The Game Map........................ 2 
	 2.2 The Playing Pieces .................. 2 
	 2.3 The Strategy Cards................... 3 
	 2.4 Unit Abbreviations................... 3 
	 2.5 Questions?................................ 3 
3.0 Symbols and Terminology........ 3 
4.0 Game Set-up.............................. 4
	 4.1 Marker Set-Up......................... 4
	 4.2 Unit Set-Up.............................. 4
	 4.3 Initial Strategy Cards............... 4 
5.0 Determining Victory................. 5 
	 5.1 General Rules........................... 5 
	 5.2 Automatic Victory ................... 5 
	 5.3 Introductory Scenario ............. 5 
	 5.4 Limited War Scenario.............. 5 
	 5.5 Campaign Scenario.................. 5 
	 5.6 Tournaments and Victory ........ 5 
	 5.7 Optional Historical Scenario ... 5 
6.0 Sequence of Play....................... 6 
7.0 Mandated Offensives................ 7 
8.0 Action Phase.............................. 7 
9.0 Strategy Cards.......................... 7 
	 9.1 General Rules........................... 7 
	 9.2 Operations................................ 8 
	 9.3 Strategic Redeployment .......... 8 
	 9.4 Replacement Points.................. 8 
	 9.5 Event ....................................... 8 
10.0 Stacking................................... 10 
11.0 Movement................................ 10 
	 11.1 General Rules......................... 10 
	 11.2 Trenches................................. 11 
	 11.3 Near East Map Restrictions .. 11 
12.0 Combat.................................... 12 
	 12.1 General Rules ........................ 12 
	 12.2 Combat Resolution ............... 12 
	 12.3 Flank Attacks ........................ 13 
	 12.4 Taking Losses ........................ 13 
	 12.5 Retreats ................................. 14
	 12.6 Withdrawal............................. 15 
	 12.7 Advance ................................ 16 
	 Examples of Combat ..................... 16 
13.0 Strategic Redeployment ........ 17 
	 13.1 General Rules ........................ 17 
	 13.2 Near East SR Restrictions ..... 17 
Table of Contents
14.0 Supply...................................... 18 
	 14.1 General Rules ........................ 18 
	 14.2 Supply Sources ..................... 18 
	 14.3 Out of Supply Effects............ 18 
15.0 Forts ........................................ 19 
	 15.1 General Rules ........................ 19 
	 15.2 Besieging............................... 19 
	 15.3 Siege Resolution.................... 19 
16.0 War and Peace ....................... 19 
	 16.1 Player War Status................... 19 
	 16.2 Combined War Status............ 20
	 16.3 US Entry................................ 20 
	 16.4 Russian Capitulation.............. 20
	 16.5 Peace Terms........................... 21 
17.0 Replacements.......................... 21 
Credits............................................... 21 
Card Notes........................................ 22 
Design Notes ................................... 24 
Extended Example............................ 25
Exceptions and Special Rules........... 31 
Set Up Information........................... 32
RULES BOOKLET
-

1.0 Introduction 
On June 28, 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the 
Habsburg crowns of Austria and Hungary, was assassinated 
by Serb nationalists in Sarajevo, then the capital of Austrian 
controlled Bosnia-Herzogovina. The murder of Franz Ferdi-
nand provided an excuse for the Austrian Army’s chief of staff, 
Conrad von Hotzendorff, to “settle accounts” with the upstart 
Serbs, and on July 23 Austria presented Serbia with an ultimatum 
with a 48-hour time limit. The Serbs appealed to their traditional 
protector, Russia, for help. When Russia mobilized, Germany, 
Austria’s ally, declared war on Russia on August 1. Having no 
plans for a war against Russia alone, Germany soon declared war 
on Russia’s ally, France, and demanded that the neutral Belgian 
government allow German troops passage through Belgium in 
order to execute the infamous Schlieffen Plan. This demand was 
refused, and the invasion of Belgium brought Britain into the war 
against Germany on August 4. In little more than a month, the 
murder at Sarejevo had led to the First World War. 
Over 4 years later, the war ended on November 11, 1918. The 
three great dynasties that had begun the war, Habsburg, Romanov, 
and Hohenzollern, had been destroyed. Lenin was waging a 
civil war for control of Russia, while Austria-Hungary had dis-
solved into its various ethnic components. The victors, France 
and Britain, were in scarcely better shape than the vanquished. 
The United States, which entered the war in April 1917, was 
disillusioned by the peace that followed and withdrew into 
isolationism. The Second World War was the result of the First. 
Paths of Glory: The First World War is a game that allows two 
players to simulate the Great War in a fun and historically ac-
curate game. The Central Powers (CP) player is attempting to 
use his central position and the quality of his German armies 
to defeat his numerically superior opponents. The Allied (AL) 
player is attempting to bring his larger numbers to bear against 
his opponent, hoping to avoid a revolution in Russia, at least 
until the forces of the United States can arrive. 
These rules are organized into seventeen numbered sections 
(1.0 through 17.0) and some sections are further subdivided into 
subsections (for example, 2.1 and 2.2). In a number of places 
in the rules, you will see references made to rules sections and 
subsections that are related to the one you are reading.
2.0 Components 
Paths of Glory includes the following: 
• One 22” by 34” Map 
• 176 5/8” die cut counters 
• 140 1/2” die cut counters 
• Two Player Reference Cards 
• One Rules Booklet 
• 110 Strategy Cards 
• One 6-sided Die 
2.1 The Game Map 
The game map consists of squares, 8-pointed stars, and circular 
spaces that are connected to one another by lines. Two spaces that 
are connected by a line are said to be “adjacent” to each other. All 
spaces are marked to show which side they belong to initially, 
the type of terrain they contain, if the space is a port, if the space 
is a fort, and whether the space counts for Victory purposes. The 
four possible invasion beaches of the Allied MEF are noted on 
the map as well. Some spaces are connected by dashed lines 
which indicate restrictions on their use; these restrictions are 
noted on the map. Finally the Sinai space is marked to indicate 
the combat penalty both sides pay when attacking solely from 
that space. The game map also contains a number of charts and 
tracks to record various game functions. 
2.2 The Playing Pieces 
2.2.1 Combat Units 
There are two types of Combat Units: Corps and Armies. Forts 
are not considered units. Corps represents forces of between 
20,000 and 50,000 men and are 1/2” counters. Armies represent 
large bodies of troops (up to 300,000 men) supported by heavy 
artillery, air units, etc., and are 5/8” counters. All Armies and 
Corps are printed on both sides of the counter. The two sides are 
called steps. The front side of the unit represents the unit at full 
strength, the reverse side represents the unit at reduced strength. 
Note that, for most units, the reduced strength side has a weaker 
Combat Factor than the full strength side of the unit, while the 
Loss Factor and Movement Factor remain the same. 
Rules Note: This 2010 reprint edition of Paths of Glory 
includes what is now the fifth official update to the game’s 
rules since the original 1999 release. To help those players 
who own the 2001 edition of the rules, recent changes to the 
game’s rules are noted in the following ways:
> If it is a new rule, or significant changes have been made 
to the rule section, this symbol is used.
If only a small portion of the rule changed, then the change 
is indicated with underlined type.
Front
Back
Loss 
Movement 
Army-Sized Units
Corps-Sized Units
Front
Back
Reduced-
Strength 
Stripe
Army ID
Allowed to 
Attack and 
enter the Near 
East Map 
(11.3.1)
May not be 
replaced 
(12.4.7)

2.2.2 Game Markers
There are 13 types of Game Marker pieces included in the 
game. 
2.3 The Strategy Cards 
Each player has his own deck of 55 Strategy Cards, subdivided 
into three groups: Mobilization Cards, Limited War Cards, and 
Total War Cards. Each side has 14 Mobilization Cards, 20 Lim-
ited War Cards, and 21 Total War Cards. 
2.4 Unit Abbreviations 
2.5 Questions? 
If there are any components damaged or missing, please contact 
us at: 
GMT Games 
P. O. Box 1308 
Hanford, CA 93232-1308 
If you have any questions about the rules, we’ll be glad to answer 
them if you send them to the address above with a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope. For faster response, we’re on the Internet 
at www.gmtgames.com, which includes a games discussion 
forum. Or send email to alewis@gmtgames.com or traicer@
gmtgames.com. 
3.0 Symbols and Terminology 
* (asterisk): If a Strategy Card with this symbol is played as an 
Event, it is permanently removed from the game after this Action 
Round. It is not removed from the game if it is used as an Opera-
tions, Strategic Redeployment, or Replacement Points card. 
Activated: When a space has had its Activation cost paid for 
movement or combat during an Action Round, all the units in 
the space are considered Activated and can conduct the action 
indicated by the Activation marker. 
Active Player: The player who is taking an action during his 
part of the Action Round. 
CC: Indicates this Strategy Card is a Combat Card Event, play-
able in support of combat units. Certain Combat Cards have the 
phrase “May only be used in one Combat per turn.” These CC 
cards are discarded, but not permanently removed, immediately 
after use; unlike other non-* CC cards, they may not affect more 
than one combat per game turn. [See 9.5.4.] 
Note: forts are not considered units, so CCs cannot be played in 
support of unoccupied forts. 
Capitals: The following are the capitals of each nation:
AH: Vienna and Budapest	
GR: Athens
BE: Brussels	
IT: Rome
BR: London	
MN: Cintinje
BU: Sofia	
SB: Belgrade
FR: Paris	
TU: Constantinople
GE: Berlin
Combat Factor (CF): The combat ability of a unit or fort. It is 
used to resolve combat on the Fire Tables. A fort has a CF equal 
to the number printed next to it on the map. The CF is a measure 
of a unit’s ability to inflict damage in Combat. Note that a Corps 
may be weaker in Combat than an Army with a lower CF number 
because Armies perform their Offensive or Defensive Fire on a 
better Combat Fire Table than Corps. 
Control of Space: Every space on the map is controlled by either 
the Allied player, the Central Powers player, or is neutral. Control 
of a friendly space changes to the enemy when an enemy unit 
enters it and there is not a friendly undestroyed fort in it. If a 
friendly besieged fort is eliminated or surrenders, control of the 
space passes to the enemy immediately. Control of Spaces can 
also change during the Attrition Phase.
Die Roll Modifier (DRM): The number added or subtracted 
from a die roll. 
Event Name: An underlined Event Name indicates the event is 
a prerequisite for another event and that there is a counter which 
lists this Event’s name which can be used as a reminder that this 
Event has occurred. 
Loss Factor (LF): The durability of a unit or fort to withstand 
combat. An opponent’s Loss Number must be equal to or greater 
than a unit’s LF for it to be reduced. A fort has an LF equal to 
the number printed next to it on the map. 
Loss Number: The result from a Fire Table during Combat. 
War Com-
mitment 
Level
Sample Card
Event 
Name
Permanently 
Removed 
Indicator
Combat Card 
Indicator
Event Effects
RP Box
OPS Value
SR Value
Card #
AH: Austro-Hungarian 
ANA: Arab Northern Army 
AoI: Army of Islam 
AUS: Australian 
BE: Belgian 
BEF: British Expeditionary 
Force 
BR: British 
BU: Bulgarian 
CAU: Caucasus 
CND: Canadian 
CP: Central Powers 
FR: French 
GE: German 
GR: Greek 
IT: Italian 
MEF: Mediterranean Expe-
ditionary Force 
MN: Montenegrin 
NE: Near East 
PT: Portuguese 
RO: Romania 
RU: Russian 
SB: Serbian 
SN: Senussi Tribal 
TU: Turkish 
US: United States 
YLD: Yilderim (Lightning) 

Movement Factor (MF): The number of spaces a unit may enter 
during an Action Round when Activated for movement. 
Movement Points (MP): The cost to enter a space. All spaces 
in Paths of Glory cost 1 MP. 
OPS Value: The number of Activation Points which a player may 
spend for movement or combat in an Action Round.
Out of Supply (OOS): This occurs when a unit cannot trace a 
supply line to a friendly source. An OOS unit is severely restrict-
ed, and is eliminated during the Attrition Phase if still OOS. 
Replacement Points (RP): These are used to rebuild reduced 
strength units and to recreate eliminated units. 
RP Box: The nations and the number of Replacement Points re-
corded when the card is played as a Replacement Point action.
Space: Each location on the map to which a unit may be 
moved. 
SR Value: The number of SR Points a player conducting a 
Strategic Redeployment action may use. 
Strategic Redeployment (SR): The action by which players may 
quickly move units great distances within friendly territory.
VP: Victory Point(s), used to determine victory in the game.
VP Space: Any space with a red name and red outline. When 
control of any of these spaces changes, adjust the VP marker per 
the Victory Point Table. 
War Commitment Level: This determines which group(s) of 
Strategy Cards are allowed to be in each player’s Draw Pile. 
War Status Number: Some of each player’s Strategy Cards 
have this number. When one of these Strategy Cards is played 
as an Event, both the Active Player’s War Status marker and the 
Combined War Status marker are increased by this number. 
4.0 Game Set-up 
Paths of Glory has three Scenarios: Introductory, Limited War, 
and Campaign. All three scenarios start in August 1914 and use 
the same set-up given below. 
4.1 Marker Set-Up 
•	 Place the Game Turn marker on the August 1914 
space of the Turn Record Track. 
•	 Place the Victory Point marker on the 10 space of 
the General Records Track.
•	 Place all three War Status 
markers on the 0 space of 
the General Records Track. 
•	 Place the GE, AH, Allied, 
BR, FR, RU Replacement markers on the 0 space of the Gen-
eral Records Track. 
•	 Place the Current CP Russian VP marker on the 0 
space of the General Records Track. 
•	 Place the Allied and CP Mandated 
Offensives markers near their 
respective tables. 
•	 Place the US Entry marker in the 
US Neutral box on the US Commitment Track.
•	 Place the Russian Capitulation marker in the God 
Save the Tsar box on the Russian Capitulation 
Track. 
•	 Each player places six Action markers near 
his Action Round Charts. 
•	 Place the five Move/Attack markers near 
the Central Powers player, because he will take the 
first action. 
•	 Place all other markers within easy reach. 
4.2 Unit Set-Up 
4.2.1 Place the units for both the Central Powers and the Allied 
players in the spaces listed on the Set-Up Chart on the back of 
this rulebook. Note that some corps start in the Reserve Box, 
not on the map.
NOTE: Some spaces only have level 1 trenches in them as part of 
the initial set-up. 
4.2.2 Neutral nations do not begin the game on the map. A neutral 
nation’s units are set-up in accordance with the Set-Up Chart 
immediately upon the play of the Neutral Entry Event for that 
nation. Exception: Turkish units are placed per 16.1.3.1.
4.2.3 Place all other units within easy reach. 
> 4.2.4 (Optional) Players who wish may use this optional al-
ternative set up, used widely in tournament play, which can help 
prevent an unstable “Dance of Death” on the first turn: 
•	 Remove one AH at start Corps from the Reserve Box and place 
it in Stanislaw. 
•	 Remove one RU at start Corps from the Reserve Box and place 
it at Lutsk. 
4.3 Initial Strategy Cards 
4.3.1 The Central Powers player may choose whether or not to 
start the game with the Guns of August event Strategy Card in his 
hand. The Central Powers player must inform the Allied player 
of his decision. In either case, the Central Powers Mobilization 
Cards are shuffled and the Central Powers player draws his initial 
hand of seven cards, counting the Guns of August card if chosen. 
Choosing Guns of August does not obligate the CP player to play 
it as an event.
4.3.2 Shuffle the 14 Allied Mobilization Cards and deal 7 to the 
Allied player. 
> 4.3.3 Turn 1 Mandated Offensive are rolled. 

5.0 Determining Victory 
5.1 General Rules
 5.1.1 Victory is determined by the VP level when the game ends. 
Exception: If a player accepts Peace Terms, the game ends in a 
draw regardless of the VP level. Each scenario has different VP 
levels to determine the winner. 
> 5.1.2 The VP level changes for reasons and in amounts given 
in the Victory Point Table on the Player Aid cards. The VP level 
can exceed 20 and go below 0 during the Action, Attrition, Siege, 
and War Status Phases. 
5.2 Automatic Victory 
5.2.1 In all scenarios, the Central Powers win an Automatic 
Victory if the VP total is 20 or higher during segment E.2 of the 
War Status Phase of any turn. 
5.2.2 In all scenarios, the Allies win an Automatic Victory if 
the VP total is 0 or lower during segment E.2 of the War Status 
Phase of any turn. 
5.3 Introductory Scenario 
5.3.1 This scenario ends at the conclusion of Turn 3. 
5.3.2 Neither player’s War Commitment Level may increase in 
this scenario regardless of their War Status level. 
5.3.3 Do not use rule 16.5 (Peace Terms) in this scenario. 
5.3.4 The space which the VP marker is in at the conclusion 
of this scenario is compared to the appropriate levels below to 
determine the winner or if the game ends in a draw. 
	 Central Powers Victory: 14 or more 
	 Draw: 11 to 13 (the historical result) 
	 Allied Victory: 10 or fewer. 
5.4 Limited War Scenario 
5.4.1 This Scenario ends with any of the following:
•	 if a player achieves an Automatic Victory, 
•	 either player reaches the Total War commitment level, 
•	 at the end of the Summer 1916 turn (turn 10), or 
•	 in a draw by a player accepting Peace Terms. 
5.4.2 The space which the VP marker is in at the conclusion of 
this scenario is compared to the levels below to determine the 
winner or if the game ends in a draw. 
	 Central Powers Victory: 17 or more 
	 Draw: 13 to 16 (the historical result) 
	 Allied Victory: 12 or fewer 
5.5 Campaign Scenario 
5.5.1 The Campaign Scenario ends with any of the following:
•	 if a player achieves an Automatic Victory, 
•	 at the end of the Winter 1919 turn (turn 20), 
•	 as a result of an Armistice (16.2.1), or 
•	 in a draw by a player accepting Peace Terms.
5.5.2 There are two Victory Levels for the Campaign scenario 
depending on whether or not the Central Powers player played the 
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk event. The space which the VP marker is 
in at the conclusion of this scenario is compared to the appropri-
ate levels below to determine the winner. 
5.5.2.1 Treaty of Brest-Litovsk Event Played 
	 Central Powers Victory: 11 or more 
	 Draw: 10 
	 Allied Victory: 9 or fewer (the historical result) 
5.5.2.2 No Treaty of Brest-Litovsk Event 
	 Central Powers Victory: 13 or more 
	 Draw: 10-12 
	 Allied Victory: 9 or fewer 
5.6 Tournaments and Victory 
5.6.1 Either the Limited War or Campaign Scenarios can be used 
for tournament play. 
> 5.6.2 Players in a tournament should bid VP to determine 
sides. Each player rolls a die. Player with high die declares a 
side he wishes to play AND the amount of VP he will “cede” to 
the opposing player­—any whole number including a bid of zero. 
The opposing player either accepts the bid (and thus plays the 
other side), or bids a higher VP number to play the same side. 
Bidding ends when one player accepts the opposing player’s 
bid. At the END of the game, the final VP total is adjusted by 
the ceded points. 
DESIGN NOTE: The average bid seen in tournament play is in the 
1 to 2 VP range to play the Allied side. 
5.6.2.1 The VP bid is not considered when determining Automatic 
Victory. The final VP total is adjusted for the amount of the bid 
only at the end of the game.
5.6.3 The standard Victory Conditions given in each scenario, 
5.4.2 and 5.5.2, are used, except a draw is considered an Allied 
victory. 
5.6.4 If the game ends due to accepted Peace Terms, both sides 
are considered to have lost. 
DESIGN NOTE: This means that, unless the tournament is round 
robin or double elimination, offering Peace Terms is risky. 
5.7 Optional Historical Scenario Rules
•	 Use Optional Rule 4.2.4—AH and Ru corps at Lutsk and 
Stanislaw.
•	 Use Optional Rule 11.2.10—Trench roll modification
Set Up Changes
•	 CP addition—Trench in Strasbourg
•	 AP addition/subtraction
•	 Remove trench Brussels
•	 Add trenches in Verona, Asiago, Maggiore and Udine
CP Victory Point Space Changes
•	 remove 2 VP spaces from Turkey (Jerusalem and Kharput)
•	 add 2 VP spaces - Koblenz and Aachen
AP Victory Point Space Changes
•	 Remove VP spaces from Ahwaz and Venice
•	 add spaces at Brest Litovsk and Sedan.

RP change
CP receives 1 Ge RP each turn during TW (ie after it has drawn 
TW cards) if during the RP interphase it has at least three French/
Belgian spaces, which include Sedan.
Special Rules
1.	The CP Player must open with Guns of August as an Event.
2.	Entrench may not be played as an Event on Turn 1.
3.	Only Austrian and Italian armies may operate in Italy (move, 
attack, or advance into any space in Italy) and no German 
armies may end their movement (OPS or SR) in Trent, Villach 
or Trieste until the start of a turn at which both sides are at 
Total War.
4.	The following cards may double as OPS when played as 
Events: Landships, Zimmermann Telegram, Over There, Tsar 
Takes Command, Fall of the Tsar, and Bolshevik Revolution.
5.	If the game ends with an Armistice or at the end of turn 20, 
add 1 VP for each US Army not currently on the map or in the 
deadpile.
6.	If the game ends with an Armistice or at the end of turn 20, 
subtract 2 VP if the Tsar has not fallen.
7.	Use the optional eight card hand.
6.0 Sequence of Play 
Paths of Glory is played in turns, each of which is subdivided 
into Phases and Segments which must be strictly followed in the 
order listed below. 
A. Mandated Offensive Phase
Each player rolls one die and finds the result on the appropri-
ate line (Allied or Central Powers) of the Mandated Offensive 
Table to determine if any nation they control must perform a 
Mandated Offensive. Move the Mandated Offensive marker to 
the correct box on the appropriate Mandated Offensive Table to 
indicate the result. 
B. Action Phase
Each Action Phase is divided into six identical Action Rounds. 
Each Action Round allows both players to take one action. 
The Central Powers player takes his action first in each Action 
Round. 
C. Attrition Phase 
Eliminate all OOS Corps and Armies. Eliminated OOS Corps are 
placed in the Replaceable Box. Eliminated OOS Armies may not 
be replaced and are removed from the game. Control of spaces 
behind enemy lines can also change. 
D. Siege Phase
A die is rolled for each besieged fort to determine if it surrenders 
and is marked with a Destroyed marker. 
E. War Status Phase 
E.1. Check the Victory Point table and make any changes 
called for under the “During the War Status Phase” section of 
the table. 
E.2. Determine if either player has won an Automatic Victory. 
E.3. Determine if an Armistice has been declared. 
E.4. Each player determines if his War Commitment Level has in-
creased. This is not checked on the August 1914 turn (turn 1). 
F. Replacement Phase 
F.1. Allied Powers Segment: The Allied player spends any Re-
placement Points (RPs) accumulated through play of RP Cards 
this turn, as marked on the General Records Track. Any RPs not 
spent are lost. 
F.2. Central Powers Segment: The Central Powers player 
spends any Replacement Points (RPs) accumulated through play 
of RP Cards this turn, as marked on the General Records Track. 
Any RPs not spent are lost. 
G. Draw Strategy Card Phase 
Each player draws cards from his Draw Pile to bring his hand 
to seven cards. Reshuffle discards as needed after dealing all 
other available cards to the player. A player may discard any 
Combat Cards he wishes before drawing new cards. If a player 
has insufficient cards in his deck to fill his hand to the seven card 
limit, he takes all available cards and begins the next turn with 
less than a full hand. 
H. End of Turn 
If the war has not ended and the last turn of the scenario has not 
been reached, advance the Game Turn marker to the next turn 
on the Turn Record Track and begin the Sequence of Play again 
with the Mandated Offensive Phase. 
Kaiser Wilheim II
Germany
Emperor Franz Josef
Austria-Hungary
Sultan Mohammed V
Turkey
Tsar Nicholas II
Russia
King George V
Britain
Pres. Raymond Poincare
France

7.0 Mandated Offensives 
7.1 General Rules 
7.1.1 Each player rolls once on the Mandated Of-
fensive (MO) Table at the start of every turn. Place 
the MO marker on the resulting space on the MO 
Table. 
> 7.1.2 If the result is “None” or a currently neutral nation, there 
is no effect. If the nation’s capital (both Budapest and Vienna 
in the case of Austria-Hungary) is currently controlled by the 
enemy, that nation does not have a MO and the MO is shifted 
one space to the right on the MO Table. 
7.1.3 If the result is a non-neutral nation, the nation listed must 
conduct at least one attack that turn against an enemy combat 
unit. If it does not conduct an attack, there is a 1 VP penalty, as 
indicated below. This penalty applies even if the nation does 
not have any units on the map which can make a legal attack. 
If the CP player suffers the penalty, the VP level is decreased 
by one. If the Allied player suffers the penalty, the VP level is 
increased by one. 
7.1.4 To count as a Mandated Offensive, British or French units 
must attack a German unit in France, Belgium or Germany. (AUS, 
CND, PT, or ANA do not count as British for this purpose). 
7.1.5 To count as a Mandated Offensive, German units must 
attack an American, British, Belgian, or French unit in France, 
Belgium or Germany. Treat GE Mandated Offensives as “None” 
after the H-L Take Command event is in effect (as noted on the 
CP Mandated Offensive Table). To count as a Mandated Offen-
sive, a Turkish unit must attack an Allied unit. The SN cannot 
satisfy the TU MO. 
7.1.6 If the result is “AH (It)” and Italy is at war, an Austro-
Hungarian unit must attack either a space containing Italian 
units, a space in Italy, or a space containing Allied units tracing 
supply through a space in Italy. If Italy is neutral or its capital 
is controlled by the CP during the Mandated Offensive Phase, 
move the Mandated Offensive marker to the AH box and treat 
the result as if “AH” had been rolled. 
7.1.7 If the result is “AH,” an Austro-Hungarian unit must con-
duct an attack against any unit(s). 
> 7.1.8 French Mutiny: Once the French Mutiny 
event is played, flip the Allied MO marker to its “FR 
Mutiny” side. Current and future FR MOs are consid-
ered to be FR Mutiny, and attacks are not required. 
In fact, any French attack is penalized. If any French units not 
stacked with US units attack on a FR MO Mutiny turn, add 1 VP 
for the turn (not for each attack). Once this VP penalty is suffered, 
the effects of the French Mutiny are nullified for the rest of the 
current turn and the MO marker is moved to the “None or Made” 
box. If the French Mutiny event is played after a French MO has 
been satisfied, there is no effect for the rest of the turn. (The MO 
marker has already been moved to the “None or Made” box.) If 
the French Mutiny is played during a FR MO turn but prior to a 
qualifying French attack, then reversal of the effects takes place 
immediately. French Mutiny does not apply to attacks outside 
of FR, BE, GE. Exception: Attacking French units stacked with 
American units do not cause this VP penalty. 
> 7.1.9 Once the Hoffmann event is played, +1 is added to the 
Central Powers die roll on the Mandated Offensive Table for all 
future rolls. The play of the Hoffman event does not change any 
CP Mandated Offensives currently in effect. 
> 7.1.10 Once the H-L Take Command event is played, the GE 
result on the Mandated Offensive Table is ignored for the rest of 
the game. If there is a German Mandated Offensive in effect when 
this event is played, ignore the Mandated Offensive and move the 
Mandated Offensive marker to the “None or Made” box. 
7.1.11 Once the Bolshevik Revolution event is played, ignore 
Russian Mandated Offensives for the rest of the game. If there 
is a Russian Mandated Offensive in effect when this Event is 
played, ignore the Mandated Offensive and move the Mandated 
Offensive marker to the “None or Made” box. 
8.0 Action Phase 
8.1 General Rules 
8.1.1 There are six Action Rounds per Action Phase. In each 
Action Round, each player is allowed to take only one of six 
possible actions. 
8.1.2 The Central Powers player conducts the first action in each 
Action Round. 
8.1.3 Each player must take one of six possible actions: 
•	 Play a Strategy Card as an Operations (OPS) card.
•	 Play a Strategy Card as a Strategic Redeployment (SR) card. 
•	 Play a Strategy Card as a Replacement (RP) card. 
•	 Play a Strategy Card as an Event card. 
•	 Offer Peace Terms if the VP level is within the player’s allow-
able range. 
•	 Take an Automatic Operation with an OPS Value of one without 
the play of a Strategy Card. 
8.1.4 A player places the numbered Action marker 
for this Action Round on his Action Chart to indicate 
which action he has conducted. 
8.1.5 The players continue to alternate taking actions 
until each player has taken six actions. 
9.0 Strategy Cards 
9.1 General Rules 
9.1.1 In Paths of Glory, the Strategy Cards are the heart of the 
game. The players initiate all actions, including movement and 
combat, through the play of Strategy Cards. Exception: Au-
tomatic Operation, Peace Terms, and Siege Resolutions. [See 
8.1.3, 16.5, and 15.3.] 
9.1.2 Each player has his own deck of Strategy Cards which is 
subdivided into three groups: Mobilization cards, Limited War 
cards, and Total War cards. Each player begins the game using 
only his own Mobilization cards. The other cards are added as 
each player’s War Commitment Level increases [See 16.1]. 

9.1.3 Each Strategy Card can be used in one of four possible 
ways: for Operations (OPS), for Strategic Redeployment (SR), 
for Replacement Points (RP), or as an Event. The same card can 
be used either in the same way or in a different way each time it 
is played during a game, but each card can be used in only one 
way each time it is played. Exception: Certain Events allow the 
same card to be used as both the event as well as an OPS card 
during the same Action Round. 
9.1.4 (Optional) Those who wish to gain greater control over the 
card play should use an 8 rather than 7 card hand. All normal rules 
apply; players are then able to hold an extra card in their hand. 
9.2 Operations 
9.2.1 If a Strategy Card is played as an OPS Card, the player 
is allowed to spend a number of Activation Points equal to the 
OPS Value of the card. 
9.2.2 A space costs the same number of Activation Points whether 
it is Activated for movement or combat. Exception: After the 
“Fall of the Tsar” Event, spaces with Russian units activate 
normally for movement but cost one Activation Point per unit 
for combat.
9.2.3 The cost to activate a space is equal to the number of differ-
ent nationalities (excluding forts) in the space. There are several 
exceptions listed below: 
•	 Belgian units in Antwerp, Ostend, Calais or Amiens may be 
treated as British units for Activation purposes. 
•	 ANA, BR, AUS, CND, and PT units are treated as one nation-
ality (British) for Activation purposes. This is noted by all of 
these units sharing the same tan background. 
•	 French and US units may be treated as one nationality in France 
and Germany for Activation purposes. 
•	 The Central Powers Event Cards Sud Army and 11th Army 
allow certain Central Powers stacks of different nationalities 
to be treated as one nationality for Activation purposes. Refer 
to those cards for details. 
•	 The SN unit is Turkish and the MN unit is Serbian for activa-
tion purposes.
9.2.4 The cost to activate a multi-national space applies even if 
units of one or more of the nations will neither move nor attack 
depending on the Activation (i.e. a player may not withhold units 
to lower the Activation cost). 
NOTE: While the exceptions listed in 9.2.3 reduce Activation 
costs, the units are still considered different nationalities for 
Multi-national attacks. See 12.1.11. 
NOTE: If some (but not all) nationalities in a space are OOS, 
the space can still be activated. However, all units would still 
be counted for activation costs and the OOS units could neither 
move nor attack. 
9.2.5 Move or Attack: Each space can be 
Activated for either movement or combat but 
not both. A Move or Attack marker should be 
placed on each space as it is Activated. Spe-
cific attacks do not need to be designated at this time. 
9.2.6 Only occupied spaces may be Activated. A space with 
only a friendly fort is not considered occupied for Activation 
purposes. 
> 9.2.7 Near East Map: The Allied player may Activate only 
one space per Action Round for combat on the Near East map. 
This applies to spaces actually on the NE map. Units in spaces 
not on the NE map may still attack into the NE map. (e.g., 
Adrianople, Gallipoli, Balekizir.) Exceptions: The MEF Beach 
Head space and the space containing the British NE Army do not 
count against this limit. This restriction includes Constantinople 
and Bursa, which are on the Near East map, but for reference are 
also depicted on the main map. Activation for movement on the 
Near East map is not restricted. 
9.2.7.1 MEF Beachhead: It costs 3 OPS to activate 
the MEF Army for movement or combat when trac-
ing supply through the MEF Beach Head marker. It 
costs 1 OPS per corps to activate other Allied units 
tracing supply (at the moment of activation) through the MEF 
Beach Head marker. (For example, a stack that included the MEF 
and two corps would cost 5 OPS to activate.) A player may not 
pay to partially activate a stack under this rule; the entire OPS 
cost per activated space must be paid. This rule does not apply if 
the MEF is brought in as a normal reinforcement under 9.5.3.4. 
No Allied Army except the MEF may use the MEF Beach Head 
for supply. Only BR and AUS Corps may use the MEF Beach 
Head for supply. 
9.2.8 After all Activated spaces are marked, the Active Player 
may move his units which begin in a space marked with a Move 
marker. Not all units in spaces marked with a Move marker 
must move. 
9.2.9 After all movement is completed, the active player conducts 
any Combat(s) that he wishes to initiate from spaces marked with 
an Attack marker. Note: if during movement, all friendly units 
exit a space containing an enemy fort, that space may be attacked 
by adjacent units already activated for combat. 
9.3 Strategic Redeployment 
9.3.1 If a Strategy Card is played as an SR Card, the player may 
use Strategic Redeployment to move Corps and/or Armies. 
9.3.2 The player receives a number of SR Points equal to the SR 
Value of the card. 
9.3.3 A player may not play a Strategy Card as a SR Card if 
he played a Strategy Card as a SR Card in his previous Action 
Round of this turn. The play of the Salonika event counts as an 
SR play for purposes of this rule. A player may play a SR Card 
in the last Action Round of one turn and in the first Action Round 
of the next turn. 
9.4 Replacement Points (RPs) 
9.4.1 If a Strategy Card is played as a RP Card, the player marks 
the number of Replacement Points listed in the RP Box for each 
nationality on the General Records Track. Exception: Bulgaria, 
Italy and Turkey may not record replacements while neutral. 
The “A” RPs on the Allied Cards are marked with the Allied RP 
marker and are used for all Allied minor nations [17.1.1.1]. 

9.4.2 The player conducts no other actions besides marking the 
RPs during this Action Round. 
9.4.3 A player may not play a Strategy Card as a RP Card if he 
played a Strategy Card as a RP Card in his previous Action Round 
of this turn. A player may play a RP card in the last Action Round 
of one turn and in the first Action Round of the next turn. 
9.4.4 Replacement Points are spent during the Replacement 
Phase of each turn. 
9.4.5 United States replacements are not listed on the Strategy 
Cards [See 17.1.8]. 
9.5 Event 
9.5.1 General Rules 
9.5.1.1 If a Strategy Card is played as an Event Card, the instruc-
tions on the card must be followed. 
NOTE: Some cards may still be played as an event for War 
Status or to cull the player’s deck, even if the effects of the card 
are now moot.
EXAMPLE: Rathenau may be played after Independant Airforce. 
Eleventh Army may be played even if GE 11 is permanently 
eliminated. Race to the Sea may be played after CP War Status 
is greater than “4”, OberOst may be played after CP War Status 
is greater than “4” and the restriction on attacking RU forts has 
been lifted, etc.) Note that Entrench may only be played by one 
side and the second Entrench card may never be played as an 
event for deck culling. 
9.5.1.2 Removed Cards: If a Strategy Card with an asterisk (*) 
symbol is played as an Event, it is permanently removed from 
the game after this Action Round. The card is not removed from 
the game if it is used as an OPS, SR, or RP card. 
9.5.1.3 War Status Cards: Many Event cards contain a War Sta-
tus number in parentheses to the right of the Event name. When 
such an Event Card is played, both the player’s War Status marker 
and the Combined War Status marker are increased a number of 
spaces equal to the War Status number on the Event Card. 
9.5.1.4 There are several specific categories of Event Cards which 
have additional rules regarding their play. They are detailed in 
the following sections. 
9.5.2 Neutral Entry Event Cards 
9.5.2.1 Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, and Romania enter the war 
through the play of a Strategy Card as an Event. When played, 
immediately place the nation’s units on the map [See 4.2.2]. 
9.5.2.2 Only one Neutral Entry Event Card may be played per 
turn. This is not a per side limit. For example, if the Allies bring 
Italy into the war during the Spring 1915 turn, the Central Powers 
cannot bring Bulgaria into the war during Spring 1915. 
9.5.2.3 The US and Turkey enter the war through different 
mechanisms [See 16.3 and 16.1.3.1, respectively]. 
9.5.2.4 Limited Greek Entry: Play of the Salonika event rep-
resents the limited entry of Greece into the war. Place the Greek 
units on the map following the Set-Up Chart on the back of the 
rulebook. These units are still neutral. Neither side may move 
Greek units nor may they move their units into or through spaces 
containing Greek units. In addition, they may not attack or trace 
supply through spaces containing Greek units. All spaces in 
Greece not occupied by Greek units may be freely entered and 
attacked by either side. The Kavalla space is considered Allied 
Controlled at Start and Allied units may SR into the space after 
the Salonika or Greece Neutral Entry events. Greek units may 
move only after the Greek Neutral Entry event is played. 
> 9.5.2.4.1 The Salonika and MEF Events: While the MEF 
event cannot be played after the Salonika event. Greek Entry 
may be played before or after Salonika and MEF without any 
restrictions. 
9.5.2.5 Italian and Romanian Late Entry: If the CP player is 
currently at Total War (has previously added his TW cards to his 
deck) and the Allied player is not yet at Total War (has not yet 
added his TW cards to his deck) the Allied player may not play 
either the Italian or Romanian Entry Cards (Cards number 16, 17) 
as OPS, SR, or RP. He may play them only as Events (entering 
Italy or Romania on the Allied side). He may also treat them as 
unused Combat Cards and discard them under the provisions of 
rule 9.5.4.6. This restriction is removed at the start of any turn 
that the Allied player TW cards are in play. 
9.5.3 Reinforcement Event Cards 
9.5.3.1 Each player can bring new units (reinforcements) into 
play through the use of Strategy Cards as Events. Only one 
Reinforcement card may be played per turn for each nation. 
Exception: Neither player may play a Reinforcement Card on the 
August 1914 turn. A player may not play a Reinforcement card 
for a nation if it cannot legally place all the reinforcements on the 
map, for example because of stacking limits. A player may play 
reinforcements if his capital is under enemy control if he has an 
appropriate entry space to place them. Note this does not apply 
to the special Orleans exception (9.5.3.3 bullet 2).
9.5.3.2 Reinforcing Corps are placed in the player’s Reserve 
Box. There are two exceptions: The British Arab Northern Army 
Corps (ANA), and the Turkish Senussi Corps (SN) are placed as 
directed on their Event Cards. 
9.5.3.3. Reinforcing Armies are placed in that nation’s capital 
(Vienna and/or Budapest for Austria-Hungary) and/or any 
friendly controlled supply sources in that nation. They may not 
be placed in one of these spaces if it contains a fort which is 
currently besieged. There are several exceptions: 
•	 US Armies are placed at any port space in France. 
•	 French Armies may be placed in Orleans if Paris is fully 
stacked. However, French Armies may not be placed in Orleans 
if Paris is besieged or enemy controlled. 
•	 The French Orient Army, the Russian CAU Army and the 
British NE Army are placed as directed by their Event Cards 
(see also 9.5.3.4). 
•	 The British MEF Army is placed in any one of the 4 MEF 
spaces marked on the map. [See 9.5.3.5] 
Reinforcing Armies must be in supply when placed. In cases 
where more than one Reinforcing army is entered on a single 
card play, the two armies do not have to enter at the same space. 

However, if stacking limits would not allow both armies to be 
placed on the map, the reinforcement card may not be played. 
9.5.3.4 Allied Near East Armies: The Allied player may enter 
any or all of his four Near East Armies (British MEF and NE 
Armies, French Orient Army, and Russian Caucasus Army) at 
that nation’s capital or at any friendly controlled supply sources 
in that nation, at his option. In this case, all specific entry restric-
tions on that Army’s card are ignored. Near East Armies entered 
in this fashion lose their ability to operate in the Near East (and 
Salonika for the French Orient Army). They are treated as normal 
Allied Armies except they are non-replaceable and the armies still 
suffer Loss Priority per 12.4.5. War Status is advanced normally 
for the MEF and Allenby events when played in this manner. The 
MEF can be played in this manner after the Salonika event has 
been played. Sinai Pipeline can still later be played as an event 
if Allenby is played in this manner. 
9.5.3.5 MEF Invasion: When the British Reinforce-
ment MEF Event is played, place the MEF Beach 
Head marker in the same space as the MEF Army. 
The Allied player may now treat this space as an Al-
lied port. In addition, both players may now treat it as a normal 
space for movement and combat. Once the space is entered by 
a CP unit, remove the MEF Beach Head marker; the space is no 
longer considered an Allied port. 
9.5.4 Combat Event Cards 
9.5.4.1 Combat Event Cards are played during a Combat. The 
attacker must play Combat Events before the defender. Combat 
Event Cards are the only cards that can be played during the 
opponent’s Action Round. 
9.5.4.2 If a player plays a Combat Event Card(s) and wins the 
Combat, the player places the Combat Event Card(s) face up on 
his side of the map. Exceptions: Combat cards that state “May 
only be used in one combat per turn” and “*” must be discarded 
or removed, respectively, from the game immediately after the 
combat in which they are used, even if the player wins. Such a 
retained Combat Event Card can influence one other Combat per 
Action Round initiated by either player, in which case its condi-
tions apply for the balance of the turn or until the player loses a 
battle while using it. The “They Shall Not Pass” Combat Event is 
unique in that the card’s effect is not used until the Allied player 
loses a combat, after which the card is then discarded. The card 
is still discarded normally at the end of the turn. 
9.5.4.3 If a player loses a Combat any used Combat Card(s), 
whether played only for this Combat or saved from a previously-
won Combat, are discarded. 
9.5.4.4 A Combat Card may be used a maximum of once per Ac-
tion Round until it is discarded. Note that the “Putnik” Combat 
Event card may be used only for Attack OR Defense once in 
each round. 
9.5.4.5 At the end of each turn, all Combat Event Cards which 
were played must be discarded, even if the player was victorious 
in the battle(s) in which the card was used. Place the card in the 
player’s Discard Pile. 
9.5.4.6 Both players have the opportunity to discard any or all of 
the Combat Event Cards in their hand immediately before they 
draw new cards in the Draw Strategy Card Phase or before the 
deck is reshuffled when their War Commitment Level changes. 
Place the cards in the player’s Discard Pile. Combat Event 
Cards are the only Strategy Cards which may be discarded, 
with the exception of the Romanian and Italian Entry Cards in 
rule 9.5.2.5.
10.0 Stacking 
10.1 General Rules 
10.1.1 Three combat units regardless of type may stack in one 
space. Forts do not count for stacking purposes. 
> 10.1.2 Stacking limits are in effect at all times except during 
SR and movement. Players may voluntarily overstack during SR 
and movement so long as the stacking limits are met at the end 
of SR and movement. 
> 10.1.3 Should a player unintentionally overstack a space, the 
opponent chooses which unit(s) to eliminate to bring the space 
back into stacking limits. Armies eliminated in this manner are 
permanently eliminated. 
> 10.1.4 Players may not intentionally overstack a space and 
then eliminate excess units. 
10.1.5 Units of opposing sides may never be stacked together. 
Exception: Units of one side may besiege the enemy’s forts, which 
are not considered units. 
10.1.6 Units of different nations controlled by one player may 
stack freely; however, there is a higher cost to activate a space 
with more than one nationality in it (see 9.2.3).
11.0 Movement 
11.1 General Rules 
> 11.1.1 Combat units with a Movement Factor of 1 or more 
may move when their space is Activated for movement during an 
Operation. The movement of one stack must be completed before 
beginning the movement of another. One unit must also complete 
its movement before another unit begins moving. Note: this rule 
comes into play when sequencing the besieging of enemy forts 
and subsequent movement through those besieged spaces. 
11.1.2 All spaces cost 1 MP to enter, regardless of the terrain 
type. 
11.1.3 Movement must be from space to space connected by a 
solid or dotted line. Spaces may not be skipped. 
11.1.4 Dashed Connections: Dashed lines indicate there are 
restrictions as to which nationalities may move (or attack) 
across those lines. The units which can use each dotted line is 
indicated on the map adjacent to the line. For example, only a 
British unit may move (or attack) between London and Calais. 
However, all friendly spaces are allowed to trace supply during 
the Attrition Phase across friendly dashed lines. RO and SB 
units may trace supply across RU dashed lines to east map edge 
supply sources. 

11.1.5 A unit may never spend more MPs than its Movement Fac-
tor in a single Action Round. Unused MPs cannot be accumulated 
for future Action Rounds or transferred to other units. 
11.1.6 Units may move through but not end their movement in 
a space containing an Attack marker. 
11.1.7 Units may never enter a space containing an enemy 
combat unit. 
11.1.8 Forts and Movement: Units may enter a space containing 
an enemy fort if they are able to besiege it (alone or in conjunc-
tion with other units moving in the same action round) or if the 
fort is already besieged [See 15.2.1]. 
11.1.9 Amiens, Calais & Ostend: Until either the Race to the Sea 
event card is played or the CP War Status is 4 or higher, Central 
Powers units may neither end their move nor SR into Amiens, 
Calais, or Ostend, except to advance after combat. However they 
may move through and place control markers on these spaces.
11.1.10 MEF Spaces: No units may enter a MEF space unless 
the MEF Beach Head marker is in the space.
11.1.11 Neutral Nations: Units may not enter a space in a neutral 
nation, but all units may freely enter any nation immediately 
after it enters the war. Exceptions: Limited Greek Entry [See 
9.5.2.4]. 
> 11.1.12 Albania: Units may always enter Albania. Albanian 
spaces are considered Allied Controlled at Start for SR purposes. 
Albanian spaces check Attrition supply by tracing normally to 
an Allied supply source or tracing to Taranto even while Italy 
is still Neutral. 
11.1.13 Persia: Units of both sides may freely enter Persia after 
Turkey enters the war. Although Ahwaz is in Persia, it is an Allied 
controlled VP space when Turkey enters the war. 
11.1.14 Control: Players gain control of each space they move 
into, unless they are besieging an enemy fort. 
11.1.15 Arab Northern Army: The ANA unit is an exception 
to case 11.1.14. The ANA does not convert CP spaces it enters. 
Instead any CP space (except for a besieged fort space) the ANA 
occupies is considered under Allied control. The instant the ANA 
leaves such a space it reverts to CP control. The ANA has no 
effect on spaces converted by other Allied units—these remain 
Allied after the ANA exits. 
> 11.1.16 The Turkish SN Corps converts spaces per 11.1.14. 
However, during the Attrition Phase, any spaces it converts (other 
than the space it occupies) that cannot trace a supply line suffer 
Attrition. The Libya space suffers normal attrition and can be 
controlled by the Allied player through normal movement. 
11.1.17 BEF Corps & Army: Neither the BEF Corps nor Army 
may move in or attack into any space outside Britain, France, 
Belgium, and Germany. 
11.2 Trenches 
11.2.1 If a space is Activated for movement and the Entrench 
Event has been played by either player, one Army unit in an 
Activated space may attempt to entrench instead of moving. 
Other units in the space may move freely. Armies may attempt 
to entrench while besieging enemy fort spaces. 
Important: Only one player may play the Entrench event per 
game. 
11.2.2 How to Build: After all movement for the 
Action Round is complete, the Active Player rolls 
a die for each space which has an Army attempting 
to entrench. If the die roll is equal to or less than the 
Army’s LF, place a Level 1 Trench marker in that 
space or, if a Level 1 Trench marker is already there, 
flip it to its Level 2 Trench side. 
11.2.3 A space may never contain more than one Trench marker 
and the Trench level may never be more than Level 2. 
11.2.4 Trenches remain in a space until an enemy unit enters that 
space, even if no friendly units are in the space. 
11.2.5 If an enemy unit enters a space with a friendly Level 1 
Trench, the Trench marker is removed.
11.2.6 If an enemy unit enters a space with a friendly Level 2 
Trench, the Trench marker is replaced by an enemy Level 1 
Trench marker. 
> 11.2.7 Attrition and Trenches: If a space with a Level 1 Trench 
suffers attrition, the Trench marker is removed. If a space with 
a Level 2 Trench marker suffers attrition, it is replaced with a 
Level 1 Trench marker. Exception: Level 1 and Level 2 Trench 
markers in an intact fort space do not suffer attrition.
11.2.8 Corps and Trenches: Although it takes an Army to build a 
Trench, Corps units also receive the Combat benefits of Trenches, 
as listed on the Terrain Effects Chart. 
11.2.9 Forts and Trenches: Forts by themselves never benefit 
from Trenches. However, if friendly units are defending in a fort 
space, the trench benefit is applied as well as adding the fort’s 
CF to the combat strength. 
11.2.10 (Optional) Whenever a German, British, French or Ital-
ian unit fails an entrench roll place a reminder marker on that unit. 
On any attempt to entrench on the following round the unit 
subtracts one from the die roll (–1 drm). If there is no attempt to 
entrench on the following round (including the next round of the 
following turn) or the entrench attempt is successful remove the 
marker. Trench die rolls are never modified by more than –1. 
11.3 Near East Map Movement Restrictions 
11.3.1 The only Armies that may enter or attack into spaces on 
the Near East map are the Russian CAU, the British MEF and 
NE, the French OR, and the Turkish YLD and AoI. This includes 
Constantinople and Bursa, which are also on the main map. 
11.3.2 Only one Russian Corps per turn may move in either 
direction between the “To Caucasus” space and the Near East 
(Grozny and Poti). A Russian Army (including RU CAU) is never 
allowed to make this move. After the Fall of the Tsar event, no 
Russian unit may move between the “To Caucasus” space and 
the Near East, although one Corps may still SR between the “To 
Caucasus” space and the Near East per turn. See also 13.2.2. 

12.0 Combat 
12.1 General Rules 
12.1.1 A Combat may be initiated only during an Operation 
by combat units in an Activated space with an Attack marker. 
Combat is voluntary and not all units in a space have to attack. A 
player can choose to not attack from an activated space, perhaps 
as a consequence of the results of earlier combats. 
12.1.2 A player may not attack a space that contains only enemy 
units that retreated in the current Round. 
12.1.3 The active player is called the Attacker and the non-active 
player is the Defender. 
12.1.4 Each Combat can involve only one defending space. Any 
number of units in adjacent spaces Activated for Attack can 
participate in an attack. 
12.1.5 Activated units in a single space do not have to participate 
in the same Combat; they can attack different adjacent spaces. 
12.1.6 No unit may attack more than once in a single action. No 
space can be attacked more than once in a single action. A unit’s 
CF cannot be divided between multiple Combats. 
12.1.7 Corps with a CF of 0 may attack by themselves or with 
other units. If they attack with other units, they will add nothing to 
the Combat Strength of the Combat but they can absorb losses. 
12.1.8 Only attacking units participating in a Combat may take 
losses or be eligible to advance. If there are non-participating 
units in the attacking space, they are not allowed to take losses 
or advance. 
12.1.9 Units may attack across dashed lines only if their national-
ity is indicated on the map adjacent to the dashed lines. Russian 
Armies cannot make attacks from the To Caucasus Box to the 
Near East. One Russian corps may attack/retreat between the To 
Caucasus box and the Near East per turn; this counts as the “one 
move” allowed under 11.3.2 
12.1.10 London and Taranto: Units in London may conduct a 
Combat only if the Combat also involves friendly units located 
in a space in either France or Belgium. Italian units may attack 
across the Taranto–Valona dotted line without friendly units 
located in Albania or Greece. 
12.1.11 Multi-national Attack: Units of different nations on 
the same side may participate in the same Combat if they are 
all stacked together, or qualify for a multi-space, multi-national 
attack (12.1.11.1).
NOTE: Although several special cases exist for multi-national 
activation (see 9.2.3), these cases do not supercede the require-
ments of multi-national attacks. E.g. while BR and BE units 
can be activated together at a lower cost in Antwerp, Ostend, 
Calais, and Amiens, the BE units do not count as BR units for 
multi-national attacks. 
12.1.11.1 Multi-national Attacks from Two or More Spaces: 
Multi-national Attacks can occur from more than one space if 
one of the spaces in the attack contains units of all involved 
nationalities. Any other space(s) involved in the same Combat 
may contain units from any of the nationalities in the common 
space. Each participating nation must have a unit in the com-
mon space participating in the attack. Due to this restriction 
and stacking limits, no Combat may involve more than three 
nationalities on each side.
12.1.11.2 ANA, AUS, CND and PT Corps are British, the SN 
unit is Turkish and the MN unit is Serbian for multinational 
attacks.
12.2 Combat Resolution 
12.2.1 Each Combat is resolved using the following steps in the 
order given: 
1.	 Designate the Combat
2.	 Determine Combat Strengths
3.	 Play trench-negating Combat Cards
4.	 Attempt Flank Attack
5.	 Play Combat Cards
6.	 Determine DRM
7.	 Determine Fire Column
8.	 Determine Results
9.	 Take Losses
10.	Determine Combat Winner
11.	Defender Retreat
12.	Attacker Advance
12.2.2 Designate the Combat: The active player designates 
which units are attacking and which space they are attacking. 
12.2.3 Determine Combat Strengths: Each player totals the 
CF of the units involved in the Combat to determine his Com-
bat Strength. The Defender also adds the CF of any fort in the 
defending space to his Combat Strength. This step is conducted 
simultaneously. 
> 12.2.4 Play Trench Negating Combat: The Attacker may play 
Combat Card Events that negate enemy trenches for purposes 
of the combat. 
12.2.5 Attempt Flank Attack: The Attacker (if certain require-
ments are met) may declare and determine the success of a Flank 
Attack [See 12.3]. If a Flank Attack is attempted, steps 6 though 
9 of the Combat Procedure will be resolved sequentially instead 
of simultaneously. 
12.2.6 Play Combat Cards: The Attacker may play any number 
of Combat Card Events whose conditions are met by this Combat 
at the time of Step 5. In addition, the Attacker may elect to use 
any Combat Card Events that are in front of him whose condi-
tions are met by this Combat and which have not been used in a 
previous Combat during this Action Round. After the Attacker 

plays and selects all his Combat Cards, the Defender has the 
opportunity to play and select Combat Cards using the same 
procedure outlined for the Attacker. 
12.2.7 Determine DRM: Both players examine all played and 
selected Combat Event cards to determine the final DRM which 
will affect this Combat. There is also a –3 DRM if all attacking 
units are in the Sinai space. (Attacks from the Sinai space in 
conjunction with another space do not suffer the –3 DRM). This 
step is conducted simultaneously. 
12.2.8 Determine Fire Column: Each player determines which 
Fire Table he will use. If the player’s units contain one or more 
Armies (even if reduced), the player fires on the Army Table; 
otherwise, the player uses the Corps/Fort Table. Each player finds 
his Combat Strength on the appropriate Fire Table and shifts a 
number of columns depending upon the Terrain Effects of the 
defending space (terrain and trench effects are cumulative) to 
determine his Fire Column. Column shifts cannot cause the Fire 
Column to be off the Army/ Corps/Fort Tables; if the column 
shifts would take the Fire Column above the rightmost or below 
the leftmost column, any additional shifts are ignored. This step 
is conducted simultaneously unless a Flank Attack was attempted 
or the von Hutier Combat Card was played. 
12.2.9 Determine Results: Each player rolls a die, modifies it 
by his DRM, and cross references it with his Fire Column to 
determine his result. A die roll can never be modified to less than 
1 or greater than 6; treat any modified die roll below 1 as a 1 
and any modified die roll above 6 as a 6. This step is conducted 
simultaneously unless a Flank Attack was attempted (possibly 
with Wireless Intercepts) or the von Hutier Combat Card was 
played. 
12.2.10 Take Losses: Each player must now apply the combat 
losses required by his opponent’s result. If this was not a Flank 
Attack, the Defender must assign losses before the Attacker, but 
the losses do not affect the Loss Number he achieved. 
12.2.11 Determine Combat Winner: The player who causes 
his opponent the higher Loss Number wins the Combat and is 
allowed to keep any played or selected Combat Card Events. The 
losing player must discard all played and selected Combat Card 
Events. If both players’ Loss Numbers are the same, both players 
are considered to have lost and must discard. Exception: The 
Allied Player discards the They Shall Not Pass when he loses the 
Combat. If he ties or wins, the card remains face up in front of 
him. The card is still discarded normally at the end of the turn. 
12.2.12 Defender Retreat: If the Attacker wins the Combat and 
any attacking units remain at full strength, all defending units 
not eliminated must retreat. The Defender may have the option 
to cancel the retreat by taking an additional step loss. 
12.2.13 Attacker Advance: If the Defender retreated or was 
completely eliminated, the Attacker has the option to advance 
with any remaining full strength units. 
12.3 Flank Attacks 
12.3.1 The Attacker may attempt a Flank Attack if all the fol-
lowing conditions apply:
•	 Units are attacking from two or more spaces, and 
•	 at least one Army is attacking, and 
•	 the defending space is not Swamp or Mountain, does not 
contain a Trench marker, and is not an unoccupied fort. 
NOTE: Flank attempts may be made if certain CP combat cards 
which “cancel all trench effects” are used in the combat, provided 
all of the other conditions are still met. 
12.3.2 In a Flank Attack Attempt, the Attacker must designate any 
one attacking space as the “frontal assault” or “pinning” space. 
Each attacking space except the “pinning” space that is not con-
nected by a solid line to any enemy occupied space except the 
target space provides a +1 drm to the Flank Attack Attempt die 
roll. Spaces containing only an enemy fort are not considered 
occupied for this rule. Enemy occupied spaces connected to 
friendly attacking units only by dashed lines are ignored for the 
purpose of determining Flank Attack Attempt drms. 
NOTE: The Flank Attack drm is checked at the time of the at-
tack. The sequence of combats may affect the enemy occupied 
spaces. 
12.3.3 The attacking player rolls one die to determine the success 
of the Flank Attack Attempt. If the modified die roll is 4 or higher, 
the Flank Attack succeeds and the Attacker will resolve steps 6 
through 8 before the Defender. This means the Defender’s fire 
will be affected by the losses he takes. If the modified die roll is 
3 or lower, the Flank Attack fails and the Defender will resolve 
steps 6 through 9 before the Attacker. 
> 12.3.4 During flank attacks, Combat Cards played during the 
Play Combat Cards Step are still used even if the conditions are 
not met at the time of the Determine Combat Results Step. E.g., 
if BR and FR units using the Hurricane Barrage Combat Card 
attempted and failed a flank attack, the Combat Card would 
still be used even if no BR units survived steps 6 though 9 of the 
Defender’s Combat Resolution. 
> 12.3.4.1 In the case of the Kemal Combat Card, if the required 
TU units with combat factor of 1 or more are no longer present, 
simply convert the remaining factors from the Corps Fire Table 
to the Army Fire Table (round the “0” Corp Fire Table column 
up to the “1” Army Fire Table Column.) 
> 12.3.4.2 In the case of the Withdraw Combat Card, the de-
fender would still regain the flipped army or corps step after the 
Combat Resolution.
12.4 Taking Losses 
12.4.1 The result of each player’s die roll on the fire table is his 
opponent’s Loss Number. 
12.4.2 Losses are taken by reducing or eliminating combat units 
or Forts. Each step removed from a unit provides the unit’s LF 
towards fulfilling the Loss Number. 
12.4.3 Each player must fulfill as much of their Loss Number as 
possible without taking more losses than their Loss Number. The 
player may not take fewer losses than required if it is possible 
to take the exact Loss Number, but the player never takes more 
losses than the Loss Number. 

EXAMPLE: A full strength French Army (LF 3) and a reduced 
strength French Army (LF 3) suffer a 5 Loss Number. The player 
must eliminate the reduced strength Army and replace it with a Corps 
(LF 1). The Corps then must take two step losses and be eliminated. 
The full strength Army remains intact. The French player could not 
take a step loss from the Full strength French Army (LF 3) and the 
reduced strength French Army (LF 3) because this would exceed 
his Loss number. 
12.4.4 A reduced strength Army which is eliminated is replaced 
immediately in its current space by a full strength Corps of the 
same nationality from the Reserve Box, if such a Corps is avail-
able. If a full strength Corps of the same nationality is not in the 
Reserve Box, it may be replaced by a reduced strength Corps 
of the same nationality from the Reserve Box. If no Corps of 
the same nationality is available in the Reserve Box, the Army 
is permanently eliminated and may not be rebuilt through Re-
placement. 
12.4.4.1 This replacement with a Corps from the Reserve Box 
can occur even if the Army is OOS, but the OOS Army is per-
manently eliminated. 
12.4.4.2 If a space with only two full strength Armies (3 LF each) 
suffers a 7 LP result, or a space with only two full strength 2 LF 
Armies suffer a 5 result, and in either case there are no Corps in 
the Reserve Box, the two armies may not be reduced. Instead one 
army must be eliminated (as if there were a Corps in Reserve to 
take the last LP) and permanently removed. 
12.4.4.3 Due to the different nationalities within the British 
forces, there are restrictions on which British Corps can replace 
Armies. The BEF Army may only be replaced by the BEF Corps, 
and the BEF Corps may only replace the BEF Army. The MEF 
and BR NE Armies may be replaced by any BR Corps. The AUS, 
CND, PT, and the ANA Corps may not be used to replace any 
eliminated British Army. 
12.4.5 In any Combat involving British units as the Attacker with 
or without other nationalities, there is a priority for which unit 
must take the first loss if possible without exceeding the Loss 
Number. The priority list is shown below: 
•	 BEF Army 
•	 BEF Corps 
•	 MEF Army 
•	 AUS or CND Corps 
If the highest unit available on the list cannot take a loss with-
out exceeding the Loss Number, then continue down the list. 
Similarly, in any combat involving the Russian CAU Army as 
the attacker, that unit must take the first loss if possible without 
exceeding the Loss Number. In combats involving the MEF and 
the RU CAU, the attacker may choose between the two units for 
loss priority. In combats involving the RU CAU and the AUS 
or CND corps, the RU CAU has first loss priority. In all cases 
12.4.5 takes precedence over 12.4.3. 
12.4.6 Loss Numbers are applied to defending Forts only if 
there were no defending combat units in the space, OR if there 
are sufficient Loss Numbers remaining to match or exceed the 
Fort’s LF (thereby destroying the fort) after all defending combat 
units, including any corps replacing armies from the Reserve 
Box, have been completely eliminated. A fort’s LF satisfies the 
same Loss Number. Defending Forts are not affected by any 
unsatisfied Loss Numbers if any defending combat units survive 
the combat (even if they have all retreated from the Fort’s space). 
Forts friendly to the attacking side in a combat are never affected 
by the results of that combat.
> 12.4.7 Armies are permanently eliminated when: 
1)	An army is unable to perform a retreat, including overstack 
situations. A replacement corps is not eliminated nor placed 
onto the map. 
2)	An army is replaced with a corps which cannot retreat, includ-
ing overstack situations. In this case the army is permanently 
eliminated and the corps is eliminated and placed in the 
eliminated/replaceable box. 
3)	An army is eliminated while OOS or if it is eliminated during 
the Attrition Phase. 
4)	An Army that is eliminated does not have a corps in the Re-
serve Box to replace it. 
5)	If the Army is any of the following: TU YLD, TU AoI, FR 
AoO, RU CAU, BEF, MEF, or BR NE (marked with a dot to 
the right of the unit symbol).
12.5 Retreats 
12.5.1 In General: If the Attacker wins the Combat and any 
attacking units remain at full strength, all defending units not 
eliminated must retreat. This is regardless of the size of the 
remaining full strength attacking units or the number of steps 
actually removed by each side. In addition, defending units must 
still retreat even if the full strength attacking units lack sufficient 
strength to advance and besiege an intact fort in the defending 
space. Attacking units never retreat.
12.5.2 Length of Retreat: The number of spaces of the retreat 
depends upon the difference in the Loss Numbers. If the differ-
ence is one, the defender must retreat one space. Otherwise, the 
defender must retreat two spaces. Players may not choose to 
retreat two spaces if the difference in Loss Numbers produces 
only a one space retreat. The defender may not retreat if the Loss 
Numbers result in a tie. 
12.5.3 Ignoring Retreats: Defending units in Trenches, Forests, 
Deserts, Mountains, or Swamps may chose to ignore a retreat 
by taking one additional step loss. This is not just an increase 
in the Loss Number. The step loss may be taken from any de-
fending unit. One additional loss cancels the retreat, regardless 
of the number of retreat spaces required, provided at least one 
defending step remains after the additional loss. Defending 
units that retreat into Trenches, Forests, Deserts, Mountains, or 
Swamps as the first space of a two space retreat may not ignore 
the second required retreat space by taking one additional step 
loss. The last defending step left in a space cannot be eliminated 
to negate the retreat. 
12.5.4 Elimination Due to Retreat: Units which cannot perform 
retreat nor ignore the retreat by taking an extra step loss are elimi-
nated. Armies eliminated for failure to retreat are permanently 
removed from the game and may not be replaced. In this case, 
a replacement corps for the army is not taken from the Reserve 

Box nor placed onto the map nor eliminated with the army. 
Other cases where Retreat causes elimination:
•	 Russian Units: Retreating Russian units whose first space of 
a two space retreat is into an off-map box are eliminated if the 
units are not able to fulfill the second space of the retreat. For 
example, if Russian units in Kiev suffered a two space retreat and 
Chernigov, Beleya Tserkov, and Zhitomir were occupied by CP 
units, the Russian units would retreat into the “To Kharkov” off 
map box and then be eliminated because they could not fulfill the 
second space of the required retreat. 
•	 > MN Corps: If the MN Corps is forced to retreat it is elimi-
nated.
•	 > Replacement Corps and Retreats: If a Corps from the 
Reserve Box that has just replaced an eliminated army can not 
perform the retreat, ignore the retreat by taking an extra step, 
or is eliminated due to an overstack situation, it is eliminated. 
In addition, the army which was just eliminated is permanently 
eliminated as if the army itself could not have performed the 
retreat. The replacement of an eliminated army with a corps 
from the Reserve Box is not meant as an escape to prevent 
permanent elimination. This may require some memory about 
identifying which specific corps replaced an eliminated army. 
After the current combat is over, the replacement corps is 
treated normally. 
12.5.5 Retreat Restrictions: Units which retreat must follow 
the restrictions below:
•	 May not enter a space containing an enemy unit or a non-be-
sieged enemy fort. 
•	 May not retreat from a port by sea. 
•	 May not retreat back into the original defending space. 
•	 May not end its retreat overstacked, but may retreat in viola-
tion of stacking limits through the first space of a two space 
retreat. In cases where the Defender has no other route, he 
would choose which retreating units would be able to stack 
within limits and then eliminate the rest. 
•	 May end their retreat adjacent to the original defending space 
if retreating two spaces as long as the units entered two spaces 
during the retreat. For example, a unit retreating two spaces 
from Sedan could retreat to Cambrai and then end the retreat 
in Chateau-Thierry. 
•	 Retreating units may retreat to different spaces. 
•	 Must first retreat into friendly-controlled spaces if possible, 
but may retreat into empty enemy-controlled spaces if it is 
not (they do not gain control of enemy controlled spaces they 
retreat through; they do gain control of spaces they retreat into 
[Exception: See 15.1.10]). 
•	 Must end their retreat in supply if possible. 
•	 In cases where multiple spaces that are not fully stacked exist 
for a unit to retreat, follow the following priority list: 
	 1) Into a friendly space in supply. 
	 2) Into a friendly space not in supply 
	 3) Into an enemy space that would result in the retreating unit 
being in supply. 
	 4) Into an enemy space that that would result in the retreating 
unit not being in supply. 
•	 For two space retreats, follow the retreat priority for the first 
space and then follow the priority again from the first space 
to the second space. 
12.5.6 Combat Against Previously Retreated Units: If defend-
ing units retreat into a space that is attacked later in the same 
Action Round, the units that have already retreated do not add 
their CF to the Combat against that space. In addition, if a Loss 
Number of at least 1 is achieved, the already retreated units are 
immediately eliminated and do not count towards fulfilling the 
Loss Number. The already retreated units are immediately elimi-
nated and placed into the Eliminated / Replaceable Units box. 
They do not count toward fulfilling the Loss Number and are not 
replaced by replacement corps from the Reserve Box. 
12.5.7 Control: Retreating from a space does not cause control 
of that space to change to the other side. The control of that 
space would only change after attacking units advanced into 
the space. 
> 12.6 Withdrawal 
12.6.1 The Withdrawal Combat Card represents a planned with-
drawal similar to the British defense at Mons. 
12.6.2 The Withdrawal Combat Card is played after the Attempt 
Flank Attack die roll. 
12.6.3 Defending units (not forts) negate one required Corps 
step loss after the Take Losses Step. In cases of a successful 
flank attack, the Corp step loss is not negated until after the de-
fender has completed his Determine Result Step of the combat. 
(In other words, the defender does not regain the step loss until 
after he has fired.) 
12.6.4 Defending units must then retreat one space. Full strength 
attackers may advance one space. This retreat is required and is 
done even if the Loss Numbers of the combat resulted in a tie or 
the Attacker lost the combat. This retreat is still only one space 
even if the difference in Loss Numbers would have normally 
required a two space retreat. 
12.6.5 The defending player may not choose to negate the re-
quired retreat of the Withdrawal card due to terrain or a trench. 
12.6.6 If no Corps step was lost, then one Army step loss may 
be negated. 
12.6.7 If there is neither a Corps nor Army step lost in combat, 
this event still requires the one space retreat. 
12.6.8 The following situation only occurs if Armies take losses. 
If an Army has no Corps in reserve, the Army is only flipped back 
if the loss number equals its loss factor value. If the loss number 
is greater than the value of the loss factor, then this Event has no 
effect as no corps can be flipped back. 
12.6.9 If the Defender can fulfill his Loss Number in several 
ways, then he should fulfill the loss through Corps (not Armies), 
therefore saving a Corps step rather than an Army step. 
EXAMPLE: BR 1, BR c, and BR c play Withdrawal and suffer 3 
Loss Number. Instead of flipping and then unflipping BR 1, the 
Allied player would instead need to eliminate BR c and flip BR 

c to (BR c) and then unflip the (BR c) or place back onto the 
map the other (BR c). 
12.6.10 If all defending units are eliminated, the Withdrawal 
card still enables one reduced corps to survive if a Corps 
was in the space or if a Corps was placed onto the map from 
Reserve. If the space was occupied by army(ies) that did not 
have replacement Corps in Reserve and these Armies were 
all eliminated, then one reduced Corps would not survive in 
this case. 
12.7 Advance 
12.7.1 All remaining FULL STRENGTH attacking units 
may advance if the defending units retreat or are completely 
eliminated, within stacking limitations. Exception: In cases 
of an attack on a enemy fort without enemy units, the attacker 
cannot advance unless the fort is destroyed, even if the attacker 
won the battle by comparing Loss Numbers.
12.7.2 If all defending units are eliminated, the advancing units 
may only enter the defender’s space. 
12.7.3 If all defending units retreated two spaces, the advancing 
units may advance into any spaces which the retreating units 
vacated. However, advancing units must stop upon entering a 
Forest, Mountain, or Swamp space. 
> 12.7.4 If defending units that suffer a two space retreat can 
only retreat one space and then are eliminated due to 12.5.5, 
the advancing units may still advance into the last occupied 
space of the retreating defenders. 
EXAMPLE: If Russian units in Kishinev were attacked from 
Zhmerinka and suffered a two space retreat and Romania was 
neutral and Odessa was CP occupied, the Russian units would be 
eliminated per 12.5.5. The CP units in Zhmerinka could advance 
up to Ismail because the Russians would have retreated into that 
space to satisfy the first space of the two space retreat. 
12.7.5 Advancing units may not enter a space containing 
enemy units. 
12.7.6 Advancing units may enter a space containing only an 
intact enemy fort if they can besiege it, but may advance no 
farther. However, after sufficient advancing units besiege the 
fort, other advancing units may continue to advance under the 
conditions of 12.7.3. 
12.7.7 Central Powers units may advance into Amiens, Calais, 
or Ostend only if one of the following applies: 
•	 if it was the defending space in the Combat. 
•	 if the “Race to the Sea” Event has been played. 
•	 if the Central Powers War Status is 4 or higher. 
12.7.8 The Defender may never advance. 
12.7.9 Advancing units gain control of any space they enter 
unless they are besieging a fort. 
Examples of Combat 
Example 1: August 1914 Combat 
The German 8th Army (full strength, 
5-3-3) and the 1 Corps (full strength, 
2-1-4) attack the Russian 2nd Army 
(full strength, 3-2-3) in the Tannen-
berg space. The Germans are attack-
ing from 2 different spaces, and so 
attempt a flank attack. The Germans 
designate the 8th Army space as the 
pinning space. They roll a 3 which is 
modified by +1 since the Corps is not adjacent to any enemy unit 
other than the 2nd Army. The attempt succeeds. The Germans fire 
first with a strength of 7 on the Army table. They roll a 3 on the dice 
on the for a result of 4. The 2nd Army has a LF of 2, so the 4 result 
causes it to lose 2 steps. The 2nd Army is replaced by a full strength 
1-1-3 Corps from the Reserve box. The Russians now fire back on the 
Corps table on the 1 column, rolling a 4, for a result of 1. The Ger-
man player reduces the full strength Corps to satisfy this result. Since 
the Defender’s Loss Number(4) was higher than the Attacker’s Loss 
Number(1), the Attacker wins. Since the Attacker won and still has 
a full strength unit, the surviving Russian Corps must retreat unless 
the Russian player chooses to exercise the No Retreat Option allowed 
by the Forest, which would cost another step. He chooses to retreat 
the required 2 spaces back to Warsaw instead. The German player 
decides to advance into Tannenberg. Since Tannenberg is a Forest 
space, the German 8th Army must halt its advance in that space. Note 
that the Corps may not join in the advance, since it is now at reduced 
strength and only full strength attackers may advance. 
Example 2: July 1916 
The British 3rd and 4th Armies 
(both 4-3-3 at full strength) are in 
the Amiens space. The Canadian 
Corps (2-1-4, reduced strength) 
and the French 6th Army (3-3-3, 
full strength) are in the Chateau 
Thierry space, and attack the Ger-
man 2nd Army (5-3-3, full strength) and 2 Corps (both 2-1-4, full 
strength) with a Level 2 Trench in the Cambrai space (Note: this 
will cost 3 Activation points because of the mixed Franco-British 
force involved. The French could not attack in combination with the 
British if the Canadian Corps was not in its space). No flank attack 
is possible because of the trench, so all fire is simultaneous. The 
Germans play the Fortified Machine Guns Combat Card, which adds 
+1 to their die roll. Being entrenched at Level 2, they conduct fire on 
the 12-14 column of the Army Fire table. They roll a 5 (+1 drm) and 
achieve a Loss Number of 7. The Allied player has 13 fire factors, 
but the German trenches mean they are firing on the 6-8 column. 
They roll a 4 , getting a Loss Number of 4. Under rule 12.4.5, the 
first loss must come from the Canadian Corps, which is eliminated. 
Since the French have suffered heavy losses this turn at Verdun, the 
Allied player then reduces the British 3rd and 4th Armies. The Ger-
man player reduces the 2nd Army and a Corps. There is no retreat 
or advance because the Defender won the battle. The German player 
gets to keep the Fortified Machine Gun card on the table in front of 
him because he won the battle. 

13.0 Strategic Redeployment 
ANA, AUS, CND and PT Corps are British and the SN unit is 
Turkish for SR purposes. See the limitations for ANA and SN 
(13.1.8). 
13.1 General Rules 
13.1.1 SR is used to move units long distances through friendly 
controlled territory or to/from the Reserve Box. 
13.1.2 Each SR Point will SR one full or reduced strength Corps. 
It takes 4 SR Points to SR one full or reduced strength Army. 
13.1.3 No unit may SR more than once in each Action Round. A 
unit may SR each time that a player plays a SR Card. 
13.1.4 SR may be split up among different nationalities and 
spaces as a player sees fit. A player may SR some units from a 
space and not others without any penalty. 
13.1.5 SR Procedure: Units must be in supply to use SR. Units 
may SR from their space to any other friendly supplied space 
by using solid or eligible dashed lines connecting spaces. The 
route between the two spaces may only enter friendly-controlled 
spaces. Any or all of the spaces may be adjacent to enemy units 
or forts. Units can SR through a hex that contains a besieged en-
emy fort, but never through an enemy combat unit. Units can SR 
into and out of a besieged enemy fort so long as the fort remains 
besieged. A unit cannot SR out of a besieged enemy fort space if 
the fort would no longer be besieged after the SR. 
> 13.1.6 Russian SR: Russian units may only SR inside Russia 
including the Russian Near East. This includes both overland 
SR and also SR from or to the Reserve Box. Russian corps are 
not allowed to SR by sea because of this rule. Russian corps 
are not allowed to SR from one off map box to another unless 
a valid connecting solid or eligible dotted line exists. Russian 
corps could SR from the off map box into the Reserve Box and 
then, on a later round, SR from the Reserve Box to the other 
off map box.
13.1.7 SR by Sea: Corps may also SR by sea from one friendly-
controlled port space to another friendly-controlled port space. 
Units that SR by sea may not combine this with SR overland. 
They must start and end in a friendly controlled port space. 
Armies may never SR by sea. Except for the restriction on the 
SR of RU corps outside of Russia, all other nationalities can 
SR by sea. 
13.1.7.1 The Central Powers player may use friendly controlled 
port spaces in Germany and Russia for SR sea movement. 
Exception: A besieged Riga may not be used for Central Power 
SR sea movement or sea supply. 
13.1.7.2 The Allied player may use any friendly controlled ports 
not in Germany or Russia for SR sea movement. Exception: Al-
lied units may not SR to or from Constantinople by sea unless 
they control Gallipoli. 
13.1.8 SR and the Reserve Box: Units may SR out of the Re-
serve Box into any space containing a supplied unit of the same 
nationality within the stacking limit. Exceptions: Not into spaces 
containing only the British ANA or Turkish SN Corps. Corps may 
also SR out of the Reserve Box into any supplied friendly capital 
or supply source in their nation. Rule 14.1.5 for Serbia special 
supply does not allow SR from the Reserve Box. However, Serbia 
Corps can SR from the Reserve Box to Salonika since it is a sup-
ply source for the Serbs. A British Corps using SR between the 
Reserve Box and any space in the Near East counts as the single 
corps that may be SR’d by sea under rule 13.2.1. US Corps may 
SR from the Reserve box to any Allied-controlled port in France 
even if the port space does not contain a US unit. 
13.1.9 Corps units may SR from the map to the Reserve Box. 
> 13.1.10 Players may sequence the order of their SRs as they 
wish. For example, Unit “A” can SR from the Reserve Box 
onto Unit “B”. Unit “B” can SR into a different space. Unit “C” 
could then SR from the Reserve Box onto Unit “B” in the new 
space. 
13.1.11 Capitals and SR: If the enemy controls or besieges a 
nation’s capital (Paris in the case of France, Vienna or Budapest 
in the case of A-H), no Corps of that nation may SR to or from 
the Reserve Box as long as the enemy control lasts. Exception: 
Belgian and Serb units are not affected by this restriction. The 
MN unit may not use SR overland. It may SR to and from the 
Reserve Box.
> 13.1.12 Units may not SR to or from the Reserve box under 
the following conditions: German and Austrian units tracing 
supply to Sofia or Constantinople, Turkish units tracing supply 
to Essen, Breslau or Sofia, Bulgarian units tracing supply to Es-
sen, Breslau or Constantinople, and Russian and Romanian units 
tracing supply to Belgrade. 
13.2 Near East SR Restrictions 
13.2.1 No more than one British Corps (including the AUS Corps, 
but not including the CND, PT, or BEF Corps) may use Reserve 
Box SR to or from Near East or SR by sea to or from the Near 
East per turn. There is no limit on the number of these units that 
may SR by sea or overland between locations on the Near East 
map. It is not permitted to use Sea or Reserve Box SR of FR 
Corps, IT Corps, GR Corps, RO Corps, SB Corps, US Corps, 
BE Corps, CND, PT, or BEF corps to or from the NE. Sea SR 
of RU Corps to or from the NE is disallowed (Reserve Box SR 
is allowed). There is no restriction on the overland SR of British 
units out of the Near East via Constantinople. 
13.2.2 No more than one Russian Corps (never an Army) may 
SR to or from the Near East map per turn. 
13.2.3 No more than one CP Corps may SR to or from the Near 
East map per turn. Exception: Turkish Corps do not count 
against this limit.

> 13.2.4 There is no limit to the number of BR (including AUS), 
RU, or non-Turkish CP that can SR solely within the Near East 
Map. Exception: RU units can never SR outside of Russia.
> 13.2.5 Allied corps can SR to or from the Near East prior to 
the entry of Turkey into the war.
14.0 Supply 
14.1 General Rules 
14.1.1 Units must be in supply to perform most actions. Out of 
Supply (OOS) units suffer many penalties [See 14.3]. 
> 14.1.1.1 Activation: For activation purposes, units’ supply is 
checked at the time the Move/Attack markers are placed. Sub-
sequent movement that might open up a line for tracing supply 
does not enable those OOS units to move or attack. 
> 14.1.1.2 Combat: For combat resolution purposes, the supply 
status of units is checked at the start of each combat resolution. 
(Advances or retreats caused by earlier combats in the round 
might cut off supply allowing the play of combat cards).
14.1.2 Tracing Supply: To be in supply, units must trace supply 
through any number of friendly controlled spaces to a supply 
source. Exception: A player may not trace supply through or to 
a space containing a friendly besieged fort. A supply line must 
be traced across either solid or dashed lines across which the 
tracing unit could move. (Even though RO and SE units could 
not move across the dashed lines to the RU off map boxes, those 
units may still trace supply across those lines.) 
14.1.3 Supply Path Restrictions: A Supply Path may not be 
traced through:
•	 a space containing an enemy unit. 
•	 an enemy controlled space. Exception: A player may trace 
supply through a space containing a besieged enemy fort.
14.1.4 Supply Paths Through Ports: Alternately, units may 
trace supply to a friendly-controlled unbesieged port space, and 
then directly to a friendly supply space, or to another unbesieged 
port and overland to a friendly supply space. The following 
restrictions apply to tracing supply through a port:
•	 The Central Powers player may use only friendly controlled 
port spaces in Germany and Russia to trace supply. Excep-
tion: The Central Powers player may not use a besieged Riga 
for sea supply. 
•	 The Allied player may use any friendly controlled ports not 
in Germany or Russia to trace supply. Exception: The Allied 
player may only use Constantinople as a port to trace supply 
if they control Gallipoli.
14.1.5 Always in Supply: The following units are always in 
supply and do not need to trace supply:
•	 The Montenegrin, British ANA, and Turkish SN units. 
•	 Serbian units are always in supply in Serbia. Serbian units 
using the special supply of Serbian spaces may still move out 
of Serbia, resulting in possible OOS. 
•	 Forts do not need supply and are not affected if OOS. 
•	 Turkish units in Medina are always in supply for attrition 
purposes only. The Turkish units in Medina using this special 
supply may not activate for movement or combat, may not SR, 
may not take replacements, and may not use combat cards. 
Note this does not apply to the space itself but to Turk units, 
so if Medina is abandoned putting it OOS will convert it to 
the Allies.
14.2 Supply Sources
14.2.1 The supply sources for CP units are Essen, Breslau, Sofia, 
and Constantinople. 
14.2.2 The supply sources for Russian, Serbian, and Romanian 
units are the spaces marked with the supply source symbol in 
Russia on the east map edge or in Belgrade. Russian, Serbian, 
and Romanian units may not use sea supply to trace to these 
supply sources or to London. 
14.2.3 Serbian units may also use Salonika as a supply source if 
it is under Allied control 
14.2.4 The supply source space for all other Allied units is Lon-
don. Paris is not a supply source. 
> 14.2.5 Spaces (not units) may use any of their side’s supply 
sources when checking attrition supply. 
14.3 Out of Supply Effects 
14.3.1 OOS units may not be Activated during OPS. 
14.3.2 OOS units may not SR. 
14.3.3 OOS units may not entrench, but they do receive the 
benefits of existing trenches in their space. 
14.3.4 OOS defending units may not receive the benefit of any 
Combat Event cards. 
14.3.5 Units which are OOS during the Attrition Phase are 
eliminated. OOS Armies that are eliminated are permanently 
removed from the game and may not be replaced. Both sides’ 
OOS units are removed simultaneously. Therefore, the elimina-
tion of an OOS enemy unit cannot open a supply line to any 
friendly OOS units. 
14.3.6 During the Attrition Phase, any friendly controlled space 
which does not contain an undestroyed friendly fort, and which 
if it were a friendly combat unit would be eliminated for being 
OOS, becomes enemy-controlled. Spaces are checked for attrition 
simultaneously. Exception: Under rule 14.1.5, Serbian spaces 
only convert when CP units enter the spaces.
NOTE: Spaces become enemy controlled during the Attrition 
Phase because of lack of friendly supply, not because of enemy 
supply. The space does not need to trace to enemy supply sources 
in order to change control. This may lead to the control of spaces 
changing back and forth from turn to turn. 

15.0 Forts 
15.1 General Rules 
15.1.1 No units may enter a space that contains an unbesieged 
enemy fort, either during movement or advance, unless they can 
besiege the fort (see also 11.1.8). Units which enter a space that 
contains an unbesieged fort may not move nor advance further 
during the Action Round. 
15.1.2 Forts do not have to be besieged to be eliminated. They 
may be attacked from an adjacent space if not already besieged. 
[See 15.2.3.] 
15.1.3 A besieged fort may only be attacked by units in the same 
space as the fort. 
15.1.4 Forts add their CF to the combat strength of friendly units 
defending in their space. 
15.1.5 Forts only defend, they may not add their CF to the combat 
strength of any attack. 
15.1.6 Forts without friendly units in their space may never be the 
target of a Flank Attack or benefit from any trench in their space. 
However, a Flank Attack may be made against a space that has 
unentrenched enemy combat units and an enemy fort. 
> 15.1.7 Loss Numbers are applied to defending Forts only if 
there were no defending combat units in the space or if there 
are sufficient Loss Numbers remaining to match or exceed the 
Fort’s LF (thereby destroying the Fort) after all defending combat 
units and any of their replacement corps have been completely 
eliminated. Forts have only one step. If they take a step loss, they 
are eliminated and marked with a Destroyed marker. 
15.1.8 Defending Forts are not affected by any unsatisfied Loss 
Numbers if any defending combat units survive the combat (even 
if they have all retreated from the Fort’s space). 
15.1.9 Destroyed Forts: Forts may not be replaced. Once they 
are destroyed, they remain that way for the rest of the game. 
15.1.10 A space cannot be controlled by the enemy (and its VP 
cannot be claimed) as long as an undestroyed friendly fort is in 
the space, even if the fort is besieged. 
15.1.11 Russian Forts: German units may not attack spaces 
containing Russian forts until the OberOst event card is played or 
the Central Powers War Status is 4 or higher. German units may, 
however, besiege unoccupied Russian forts. Austro-Hungarian 
units are not restricted by this rule. 
15.1.12 Russian units may not attack, enter, or besiege a German 
fort space during the August 1914 turn. 
15.2 Besieging 
15.2.1 To besiege an enemy fort, either at least one 
Army or a number of Corps equal to the fort’s LF 
must enter the fort’s space during a single Action 
Round and then stop movement. For example, to be-
siege Verdun, a CP army (full strength or flipped) or 
three CP corps (full strength or flipped) would be required. Place 
besieged fort markers to help identify that a fort is besieged. 
15.2.2 Once an enemy fort is besieged, other friendly units may 
ignore the enemy fort for all purposes including tracing supply. 
Exception: CP units may not trace Sea Supply through a port in 
a besieged enemy fort space (Riga is the only example.) 
15.2.3 A player may Activate units in a besieged enemy fort space 
for Combat. However, only the units above those required to 
besiege the fort may attack adjacent spaces. Units in the besieged 
fort space may attack the fort. 
15.2.4 A player may not move units off a besieged fort in such 
a manner that the fort is occupied but not besieged at the end 
of the round. If a force besieging a fort takes losses which drop 
it below the minimum level to besiege (or if the War in Africa 
event removes a BR corps), the units do not have to retreat but 
the fort is no longer besieged. This means no surrender die roll 
is made during the Siege Phase and supply may not be traced 
through this space. If additional friendly units enter the space, 
the total number of friendly units must meet the requirements of 
15.2.1 in order for the fort to become besieged again. 
> 15.2.5 Forts in Desert Spaces: A desert space can’t be acti-
vated for combat during summer. A desert space can’t be attacked 
during summer. Forts in Desert spaces can still be besieged and 
suffer Siege Resolution during Summer.
15.3 Siege Resolution 
15.3.1 During the Siege Phase of each turn, all besieged forts 
must be checked to see if they surrender. 
15.3.2 A die is rolled for each besieged fort. If the number rolled 
is greater than the besieged fort’s LF, the fort is eliminated. Mark 
the fort with a Destroyed marker. 
15.3.3 All siege die rolls are modified by –2 during the August 
and September 1914 turns. This reflects the shorter duration 
(one month) that these turns represent, versus three months for 
all other turns.
16.0 War and Peace 
16.1 Player War Status 
16.1.1 At Start: Both players begin all scenarios in the Mobiliza-
tion Commitment Level. 
16.1.2 Beginning on the September 1914 turn (turn 2) in any 
scenario except the Introductory scenario, both players check 
to see if their War Commitment Level has increased during the 
War Status Phase. 
16.1.3 Limited War: If a player’s War Status is 4 or higher during 
this phase, the player’s War Commitment Level rises to Limited 
War. The player adds his Limited War cards to his Draw Pile 
and reshuffles his Draw Pile and Discard Pile together to form 
a new Draw Pile. His Draw Pile will now consist of his Limited 
War cards and his Mobilization cards which are not in his hand 
currently and which have not been permanently removed. 
16.1.3.1 Turkish Entry: When the Central Powers War Com-
mitment Level increases to Limited War, Turkey enters the war 
on the Central Powers side. Place the Turkish units on the map 
per the set-up chart. Turkey’s entry into the war does not count 

as a Neutral Entry under 9.5.2.2 and does not preclude bringing 
another neutral country into the war on the same turn. 
16.1.4 Total War: If a player’s War Status is 11 or higher during 
this phase, the player’s War Commitment Level rises to Total 
War. The player adds his Total War cards to his Draw Pile and 
reshuffles his Draw Pile and Discard Pile together to form a 
new Draw Pile. His Draw Pile will now consist of his Total War 
cards and his Limited War and Mobilization cards which are 
not in his hand currently and which have not been permanently 
removed. 
DESIGN NOTE: It is possible, indeed likely, that the opposing play-
ers will have different War Commitment Levels at various points 
of the game. 
16.1.5 A player’s War Status marker may never be decreased; there-
fore, a player’s War Commitment Level can never decrease. 
NOTE: The effects of the 1914 Special Rules found on the Player 
Aid Card are based on War Status, not War Commitment Level. 
This means that the Race to the Sea and OberOst restrictions 
can be lifted during a particular turn instead of waiting until the 
War Status Phase. 
16.1.6 Once a player’s War Commitment Level has risen to Total 
War, his War Status Marker may be removed from play. Any other 
Events with a War Status Number which he plays will only affect 
the Combined War Status. 
16.2 Combined War Status 
16.2.1 During the War Status Phase of any turn in which the 
Combined War Status marker is at 40 or more, an Armistice is 
declared. The game ends and victory is determined. 
16.2.2 The Combined War Status also acts as a prerequisite to 
US Entry and Russian Capitulation. 
16.3 US Entry 
16.3.1 Full US Entry into the war is a three step process 
which is recorded on the US Entry Track. The US Entry 
marker initially begins in the US Neutral box. 
16.3.2 Move the US Entry marker into the “Zimmermann Tele-
gram Allowed” box of the US Entry Track when the Combined 
War Status reaches 30. The Zimmermann Telegram event cannot 
be played before this occurs. 
16.3.3 When the Zimmermann Telegram is played, move the 
US Entry marker into that box. The US is now an active nation 
for the Allied player, but the Allied player still may not play US 
Reinforcement Cards. 
16.3.4 The Over There event may not be played before the turn 
following the play of Zimmermann Telegram. When the Over 
There event is played, move the US Entry marker into that box. 
The Allied player may now play US Reinforcement Cards, but 
not more than one per turn. 
16.3.5 The 14 Points event does not affect US Entry, but it also 
may not be played before the Zimmermann Telegram event. 
Therefore, its event indicator is on the back of the US Entry 
marker. 
16.4 Russian Capitulation 
16.4.1 The Central Powers player has the ability to force Rus-
sia from the war via the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, as was done 
historically. This is accomplished by a six step process. The 
Russian Capitulation marker initially begins in the “God Save 
the Tsar” box. 
16.4.2 The Central Powers player records the number of VP 
spaces in Russia that he currently controls (even if the spaces 
are currently OOS), using the Current CP Russian VP marker 
on the General Records Track. If the Allied player recaptures a 
VP space in Russia, the marker is moved back on the General 
Records Track. 
16.4.3 When the Central Powers control three or more VP spaces 
in Russia, the Russian Capitulation marker is moved into the 
“Tsar Takes Command Allowed” box. The Central Powers may 
now play this event. If the Current CP Russian VP marker moves 
below 3 before the Tsar Takes Command event is played, move 
the Russian Capitulation marker back into the “God Save the 
Tsar” box. 
16.4.4 The Fall of the Tsar event may be played only if the Tsar 
Takes Command event has been played and Combined War 
Status plus the Current CP Russian VP is 33 or higher. If this 
occurs, move the Russian Capitulation marker into the “Fall of 
the Tsar Allowed” box of the Russian Capitulation Track. If this 
total drops below 33 before the Fall of the Tsar event is played, 
move the Russian Capitulation marker back to the “Tsar Takes 
Command” box until the total is again 33 or higher. 
16.4.5 When the Fall of the Tsar event is played, place the Tsar 
Fell CP Russian VP marker in the same box as the Current CP 
Russian VP marker on the General Records Track. In addition, 
move the Russian Capitulation marker into the “Fall of the 
Tsar” box. 
16.4.6 The Bolshevik Revolution event may be played on any 
turn following the Fall of the Tsar event if: 1. the Current CP 
Russian VP marker is in a higher box on the General Records 
Track than the Tsar Fell CP Russian VP marker (counting a 
captured Baku if applicable), or 2. the Central Powers control all 
seven VP spaces in Russia (excluding Baku). If either of these 
conditions are met, move the Russian Capitulation marker into 
the “Bolshevik Revolution Allowed” box. If these condition are 
no longer met, move the marker back to the “Fall of the Tsar” 
box until the conditions again apply. 
16.4.7 When the Bolshevik Revolution event is played, move the 
Russian Capitulation marker into that box. 
16.4.8 The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk event may be played at any 
time following the play of the Bolshevik Revolution event. When 
the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk is played, move the Russian Capitula-
tion marker into that box. 
16.4.9 Effects: When Brest-Litovsk is played Russian units are 
under the following restrictions:
•	 RU units may not operate outside Russia, Germany, Turkey, 
Austria and Romania. Any Russian units outside those coun-
tries are eliminated.

•	 RU units may never move through or stack with Allied units 
(and vice versa). Russian units currently stacked with Allied 
units are eliminated (interned). [This prevents the Allied player 
from using Russian units after Brest-Litovsk from protecting 
Allied units from attack.] 
•	 > RU units may no longer attack. CP units may not attack RU 
units except TU units may attack on the Near East map. Both 
sides may still move into unoccupied spaces and may still 
suffer attrition, besiege forts, and resolve sieges. 
16.5 Peace Terms 
16.5.1 A player may offer Peace Terms as his sole action during 
an Action Round if the current VP total is within the allowed 
range for the player. 
16.5.1.1 The Central Powers player may offer Peace Terms if 
the current VP total is 11 or more. 
16.5.1.1 The Allied Player may offer Peace Terms if the current 
VP total is 9 or fewer. 
16.5.2 If the opposing player accepts the Peace Terms, the game 
ends immediately in a draw. If the Peace Terms offer is rejected, 
the offering player rolls a die to determine the effect of the Peace 
Terms offer using the Peace Terms Table. The result will either 
increase, decrease or leave unchanged the VP level. 
16.5.3 There is no limit to the number of times a player may offer 
Peace Terms during the game. A player may offer Peace Terms 
only once per Action Round. Peace Terms may be accepted only 
once per game, because the game ends immediately upon their 
acceptance. 
17.0 Replacements 
17.1 General Rules 
17.1.1 During the Replacement Phase, each nation can spend 
the number of replacement points (RPs) recorded on the General 
Records Track by the nation’s RP marker. 
17.1.1.1 Allied (A) RPs may be spent only to replace ANA, AUS, 
BE, CND, MN, PT, RO, GR, and SB units. In addition, these 
units may only be replaced using Allied RPs. 
17.1.2 RPs not spent during a Replacement Phase are lost; they 
may not be saved for use in a future turn. 
17.1.3 If the enemy controls or besieges a nation’s capital space 
(Paris in the case of France, Vienna or Budapest in the case of 
Austria-Hungary), no RPs may be spent for that nation. However, 
an out of supply but unbesieged Paris does allow FR RPs to be 
spent. Exception: Belgian and Serbian units are not affected 
by this restriction. However, Belgian and Serbian Army units 
can be recreated only if they may legally be placed on the map 
[see 17.1.5] Belgian and Serbian corps can still be rebuilt in the 
Reserve Box, even if their countries are completely controlled 
by the enemy.
17.1.4 The different replacement options and their cost are given 
in Replacement Cost Table on the player aid cards. 
17.1.4.1 German and Austrian units tracing supply to Sofia or 
Credits 
Designer: Ted Raicer 
Developer: Andy Lewis 
Art Director and Package Design: Rodger B. MacGowan 
Map, Cards, Counters, Rules Layout: Mark Simonitch 
4th Edition Project Leader: Jim Falling 
4th Edition Team: David Dockter, Jim Doughan, Taylor Golding, 
Rob Hassard, Stan Jelic, John Loth, James Roberts, Harvey Small-
man, Brad Stock, Bruce Wigdor, Stephan Valkyser.
Exceptions and Special Rules List (pg 31): Marc Léotard 
Playtesters/Rules Lawyers: Gene Billingsley, Sean Cousins, Ben 
Knight, Steve Kosakowski, Andy Maly, Dennis Mason.
Proofreaders: Paul Bean, Larry Burman, Kevin Duke, Steve 
Likevich
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Gene Billingsley, Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy 
Lewis and Mark Simonitch
Constantinople, Turkish units tracing supply to Essen, Breslau 
or Sofia, Bulgarian units tracing supply to Essen, Breslau or 
Constantinople, and Russian and Romanian units tracing supply 
to Belgrade may not receive replacements. 
17.1.5 Recreated Armies are placed as if they were a reinforce-
ment [See 9.5.3.3]. There are two exceptions noted below: 
•	 Serbian Army units may be recreated at Salonika if the Salonika 
or Greek Entry event cards have been played and Salonika is 
under Allied control. They may also be recreated in Belgrade 
following normal reinforcement restrictions. 
•	 The Belgian Army may be rebuilt in Brussels, Antwerp, or 
Ostend. The Belgian Army may not be built in Antwerp if a 
line of supply does not exist. If none of these spaces are Allied 
controlled and in supply, the Belgian Army may be rebuilt in 
Calais. (Calais also represents the corner of Belgium held by 
the Allies after October 1914.). 
Exception: Serb armies may not be recreated at Belgrade if Nis 
is under CP control.
17.1.6 The British ANA Corps is not placed in the Reserve Box 
if it is replaced. It is placed in Arabia. 
17.1.7 Some units may never take replacements. These units 
are marked with a dot in the upper right hand corner. E.g. the 
BR BEF Army. 
17.1.8 US RPs: After the play of the Over There event, all Allied 
RP cards played produce one US RP as well as the RP listed on 
the card.

Card Notes
This section is intended to give players a brief understanding of the 
events represented by the cards.
11th Army: The 11th Army, commanded by August von Mackensen, 
spearheaded a number of German offensives both against Russia and 
in the Balkans.
14 Points: Woodrow Wilson’s idealistic statement of US war aims.
Air Superiority: Air warfare developed gradually in WWI, particularly 
on the western front, where the introduction of new models, tactics, and 
organization constantly swung the balance between the Germans and 
the Allies. Only in the summer of 1918 would sheer numbers allow the 
Allies to attain permanent air supremacy.
Allenby: Former cavalry commander on the Western Front, he led the 
British to triumph over the Turks in 1917-18.
Alpenkorps: an elite unit trained in mountain warfare, it took part in 
the blitzkrieg style campaign against Romania in 1916.
Arab Northern Army: the name given the Arab forces under Prince 
Feisal and his British advisor, Lawrence of Arabia, during the 1918 
drive on Damascus.
Von Below: German general responsible for the victory at Caporetto 
(against the Italians) in 1917.
Blockade: The British blockade of the Central Powers, which grew 
ever tighter as the war progressed, ultimately resulted in widespread 
hunger and even starvation in Germany and Austria in the last two 
years of the war.
Blucher: Code name for the May 1918 offensive against the French, 
which brought the Germans back to the River Marne for the first time 
since 1914.
Bolshevik Revolution: The overthrow of the Kerensky government by 
Lenin led to Russia’s withdrawal from the alliance against the Central 
Powers.
Brusilov Offensive: Named after its commander, the Brusilov offensive 
was the greatest Russian victory of the war, nearly toppling the Austrian 
monarchy. Its ultimate strategic failure however, helped spread defeat-
ism through the army.
Bulgarian Entry: Tempted by the promise of Serbian territory, Bulgaria 
joined the Central Powers in 1915. Her entry into the war led to the 
Serbian collapse, but the Bulgar forces were decisively beaten when 
the Allies broke out of Salonika in October 1918.
Chlorine Gas: Used by the Germans at Ypres in the spring of 1915, 
it caused a tactical breakthrough the Germans lacked the reserves to 
exploit. 
Cloak and Dagger: Allied spying operations had no success compa-
rable to Ultra in WWII, but undoubtedly provided useful information 
from time to time.
Convoy: While the British admiralty was reluctant to adopt a combat 
system to combat the U-boats, heavy merchant ship losses finally forced 
them to do so in early 1917.
Entrench: Though the French discouraged entrenching (to the point of 
failing to issue shovels and picks) the need to avoid all the lead flying 
above ground quickly led soldiers on both sides to dig in. 
Everyone Into the Battle: Foch’s slogan for the grand Allied offensive 
in the closing weeks of WWI.
Falkenhayn: Chief of the General Staff from September 1914 to August 
1916, his first task on taking command was to reorient German strategy 
after the failure of the Schlieffen Plan. 
Fall of the Tsar: Bread riots in Petrograd in early 1917 quickly esca-
lated into a revolution, leading to the end of the 300 year-old Romanov 
dynasty in Russia.
Flamethrowers: The first large-scale use of flamethrowers took place 
at Verdun in 1916. 
Fortified Machine Guns: A major element of German defensive tactics 
on the western front was the employment of machine guns in heavily 
fortified emplacements.
Von Francois: Commanding the German 1st Corps at the Battle of Tan-
nenberg, von Francois was an especially aggressive (sometimes to the 
point of insubordination) and tactically skilled commander.
French Army of the Orient: Name given to the French force at Sa-
lonika.
French Mutiny: The French Mutiny in the spring of 1917, kept secret 
at the time, ended any hope for major French offensives that year.
Grand Fleet: The British Grand Fleet effectively kept the German 
High Seas Fleet bottled up for the entire war. 
Great Retreat: In the summer of 1915 the Russian army abandoned 
Poland, beginning a massive withdrawal that ended that Fall in a line 
that ran from Riga to Romania. 
Greek Entry: Though partly occupied by Allied forces at Salonika in 
1915, Greece did not join the Allies until 1917.
Guns of August: The use of borrowed Austrian mortars with 305-cm 
shells allowed the Germans to smash the forts of Liege in August 1914 
The famous Krupp 420-cm mortars, often given credit for this feat, did 
not actually arrive until after the Liege forts had fallen.
High Seas Fleet: The German High Seas Fleet spent most of the war 
bottled up by the larger British Grand Fleet. It fought only one fleet ac-
tion during the conflict, at Jutland in 1916. A tactical victory, it failed 
to break the British blockade and was thus a strategic defeat.
H-L Take Command: Taking command from Falkenhayn in August 
1916, the duo of Hindenburg and Lundendorff ruled Germany as virtual 
dictators until the fall of 1918.
Hoffmann: Perhaps the best operational mind the war produced, he was 
the genius behind many of the victories Germany won in the east.
Hurricane Barrage: An intense, concentrated, and brief barrage, de-
signed to pave the way for an infantry assault. 
Von Hutier: German general responsible for victory at Riga (against 
the forces of the Kerensky government) in 1917. Later commanded 
armies in France.
Independent Air Force: The forerunner to WWII’s Bomber Command, 
the British Independent Air Force began a series of strategic bombing 
raids on German industry in 1918.
Italian Entry: Italy ignored its treaty with the Central Powers in 1914, 
preferring to remain neutral at first, and ultimately joining the Allies 
in 1915.
Kemal: Later father of modern Turkey, Kemal was also an extremely 
effective commander, starting the war with command of a division and 
rising to army command.
Kerensky Offensive: The last Russian offensive of WWI, it had some 
initial success against the Austrians, but ultimately resulted in the col-
lapse of the Russian southern front.
Landships: name given to the early British tanks, which did indeed 
resemble small land bound dreadnoughts.
Landwehr: German territorial forces, they were not originally intended 
for front line use, but quickly found themselves fighting alongside the 
regular army.
Libyan Revolt: Moslem tribesmen launched a holy war against the 
British in Libya, but were eventually put down by the diversion of forces 
from the campaign against the Turks.

Liman von Sanders: German General who helped organize and com-
mand the Turkish Army.
Lloyd George: Britain’s 2nd wartime Prime Minister tried to curb the 
offensive instincts of General Haig, especially after the bloodbath of 
3rd Ypres, by holding back men and supplies.
Lusitania: A passenger liner sunk by a German U-boat in 1915, the loss 
of life-including 124 Americans, spread anti-German feeling through 
much of the United States. It should be noted the Lusitania was almost 
certainly carrying munitions to the British.
Mata Hari: An exotic dancer, prostitute, and rather ineffectual German 
spy. Other German agents achieved better results, but what WWI game 
would be complete without the war’s most famous spy? 
MEF: The Mediterranean Expeditionary Force was the name given to 
Army the Allies landed at Gallipoli in an attempt to drive Turkey from 
the war and open up a supply route to Russia. The attempt failed after 
a bloody campaign lasting almost a year.
Michel: First and largest of the German 1918 offensives in the west, it 
was a major tactical success, gaining more ground than the combined 
Allied offensives of the previous three years, but lack of strategic direc-
tion prevented it from becoming a war-winning battle.
Mine Attack: As a traditional part of siege warfare, the use of mines 
and countermines was a major feature of trench warfare in WWI. The 
most spectacular example was the British mine at Messines in 1917, 
which exploded with a force felt in London.
Moltke: Nephew of the Great Moltke who had won the Franco-Prussian 
war, he commanded the Germany army at the outbreak of hostilities, 
where his lack of resolve helped lead to failure at the Marne.
Mustard Gas: A burning and persistent gas, it could remain dangerous 
for days and even weeks after it was used.
OberOst: The German High Command in the East, originally under 
the team of Hindenburg-Lundendorff-Hoffmann.
Over There: Though America entered WWI in April 1917, it would be 
over a year before major US forces were engaged in combat.
Peace Offensive: Code name given to last German offensive of the war, 
its failure contributed to the decline in German morale.
Phosgene Gas: One of several chemical weapons used commonly 
during WWI.
Place of Execution: The code-name given to the German assault on 
Verdun. Intended to bleed the French dry, it eventually bled the German 
army white as well.
Pleve: Though old and ill (he died during the war) Pleve was one of the 
ablest of the Tsarist army commanders.
Putnik: Serbian “Warlord” his failing health forced him to command 
from a superheated room, but his knowledge of the terrain and fighting 
instincts drove back the Austrians time and again.
Race to the Sea: After the Battle of the Marne in early September 
1914, both the Allies and Germans attempted a series of maneuvers 
designed to outflank the other. These attempts ended in October when 
they reached the English Channel, causing this period of the war to be 
called the Race to the Sea.
Rape of Belgium: German shooting of hostages and burning of towns 
in the invasion of Belgium would provide the basis of anti-Hun propa-
ganda for the rest of the war.
Reichstag Truce: In the early part of the war the German Socialists (the 
SDP), the largest political party in the Reichstag, supported the German 
war effort in a political “truce.” As the war dragged on however, the 
truce eventually broke down. 
Romanian Entry: Mistaking the extent of the Russian victory over the 
Central Powers in the Brusilov offensive of 1916, Romania joined the 
Allies, only to be conquered within 4 months. 
Royal Tank Corps: The Royal Tank Corps fought its first major battle 
at Cambrai in 1917, where its initial success demonstrated the promise 
of armor that would be fulfilled a generation later.
Salonika: Unable to convince Greece to join them in the war, the Allies 
nevertheless landed a Franco-British force at Salonika in the fall of 1915 
in a belated attempt to save the Serbs. This force would grow in numbers 
throughout the war, but would only prove effective in late 1918.
Severe Weather: As in all wars bad weather-particularly mud-affected 
the course of many WWI battles.
Sinai Pipeline: Construction of a water pipeline across the Sinai was a 
necessary prerequisite for a major British drive into Palestine.
Sud Army: This mixed Austro-German force fought effectively on the 
east front for most of the war.
They Shall Not Pass: The watchword of the French defenders at Verdun, 
the phrase symbolized French determination.
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk: The treaty by the Bolshevik government of 
Russia that ended Russian participation in WWI, and led to the German 
occupation of the Ukraine.
Tsar Takes Command: As his armies were retreating from Poland after 
a series of major defeats. Nicholas II replaced his uncle the Grand Duke 
as commander of the Russian armies. It was a disastrous decision for 
Russia, for while Nicholas played soldier at Russian army headquarters 
his empire went unruled. 
U-boats Unleashed: the German decision to resume unlimited U-boat 
warfare was taken under the twin delusions there would be no Revolu-
tion in Russia (the Tsar fell within weeks) and the submarine campaign 
would win the war before the arrival of United States forces in Europe. 
That the US would enter the war in response to this campaign was ac-
cepted as a risk worth taking. It wasn’t.
Walther Rathenau: A brilliant German-Jewish industrialist, he played 
a key role in organizing the Reich’s economy for a long war. Despite 
his vital wartime activities on Germany’s behalf, he was murdered by 
ultra-nationalists after the war.
War in Africa: The Allied war against the forces in the German African 
colonies tied up huge amounts of British forces, due to the superior 
generalship of the brilliant von Lettow Vorbeck, who had still not been 
brought to bay when the war in Europe ended.
Wireless Intercepts: The Russian habit of broadcasting orders in a 
childishly simple block code (not, as has often been reported, “in the 
clear”) gave the Germans vital operational intelligence on the east front, 
especially in 1914.
Withdrawal: Both sides made use of operational withdrawals to blunt 
planned enemy offensives-most notably the German withdrawal to the 
Hindenburg line in early 1917.
Yanks and Tanks: The effects of masses of Allied tanks and fresh US 
troops had a strong impact on German morale in 1918.
Yudenitch: Russian commander in the Caucasus, he won several major, 
though ultimately fruitless, victories over the Turks.
Zeppelin Raids: Using Zeppelins and giant Gotha bombers, German 
air raids on England inflicted little actual damage, but did tie up a great 
number of British air units and artillery in home defense.
Zimmermann Telegram: This attempt to bribe Mexico into fighting the 
US backfired, and along with the resumption of unrestricted submarine 
warfare, brought the US into WWI against Germany.

Design Notes 
The Map
The map for Paths of Glory (PoG) went through several different incar-
nations, including a hex map and an area version before evolving into the 
one you have (I hope) set up on your game table. The main advantage 
of a point to point movement system is it allows the designer to focus. 
No elaborate supply or terrain rules are required to prevent unrealistic 
strategic operations or highlight the importance of key locations; the 
map does it for you.
The map for PoG was designed to allow all the actual campaigns of 
WWI to develop historically, while giving realistic room for alterna-
tive campaigns. To do this I “played” historical versions of the game, 
adding or deleting spaces and connections until I was satisfied with 
the results. 
The Order of Battle
The Order of Battle for PoG does not include every army designation 
found in WWI. The French for example, formed an 8th Army in 1914 
not found in the game. Instead the OB represents all the most important 
formations, while maintaining the relative strengths between the dif-
ferent powers. So in game terms the French 8th would be represented 
by a couple of corps. 
Army units represent troops supported by heavy artillery, air, and other 
assets. (The Serbs are the sole exception-being given army status based 
on their fighting record in the war.) Corps units are smaller bodies of 
troops, armies with weaker command and logistical capabilities, and the 
remains of armies after heavy losses. In a more abstract sense, through 
the use of the Reserve Box corps represent the ability of a nation to 
support the demands of modern industrialized war. This ties in with 
the Replacement system to give players a limited form of control over 
their wartime economies. 
What If?
Before the Schlieffen Plan Germany had a defensive strategy in the west. 
Schlieffen’s original version called for a German invasion of Holland 
as well as Belgium. In 1914 Italy was supposedly allied to Germany. 
Romania swung back and forth between the Central Powers and the 
Allies in 1914-15. Why then in PoG can’t Germany open the war with 
its armies deployed to the east, or invade Holland? Why can’t Italy or 
Romania join the Central Powers?
Though PoG allows players to explore a wide range of what ifs? it 
deliberately excludes others. Some were excluded because they were 
judged too unlikely to be worth bothering with. Italy, despite its treaty 
with Germany, was almost certain to join the war on the side of the 
Central Powers only if the Allies had already clearly lost (as in 1940). 
Since what Italy wanted most was territory under Austrian control, the 
Allies had the upper hand diplomatically. It is always easier to offer an 
enemy’s lands as a bribe.
Romania, though it veered back and forth following the fortunes of war, 
was also unlikely to fight on the side of the Central Powers because 
it too wanted Austro-Hungarian lands. In any case what the Central 
Powers really desired from Romania was not her inept armies, but 
her oil and wheat. If Romania is still neutral when the Tsar falls, she 
economically becomes a German vassal, represented by the two Vic-
tory Point award.
Other what ifs? were excluded as outside the scope of the game. Not simply 
the course, but the cause of the war depended on the pre-war plans drawn 
up by both sides. If the Germans had never adopted the Schlieffen Plan, 
there might have been no war in 1914. Certainly if a war had taken place 
it would be so different as to require a new deck of cards.
Other what ifs? were dropped because in game terms they made so 
little sense you’d have to mandate a player to do them. The invasion 
of Holland falls under this heading; for a limited tactical advantage the 
Germans would add a strategic headache and more diplomatic damage 
(which is why Moltke the Younger dropped the passage through Hol-
land in the first place).
Finally, certain possibilities were excluded to counter player hindsight 
and also to prevent serious damage to play balance. Perhaps as some 
still argue, Schlieffen’s original plan could have won the war in 1914. 
In a game covering all of WWI it wouldn’t make much sense to allow 
the Germans a serious shot at winning on turn two.
War Status 
(or “Why The Bolshevik Revolution Depends on Sinking the Lusitania.”)
War Status is one of the most important mechanics in PoG, and admit-
tedly one of the most abstract. But the War Status numbers were not 
simply assigned randomly to various events. A great deal of thought 
(and trial and error) went into them.
War Status in PoG has several elements. First, it represents the progres-
sion of each alliance towards a state of modern industrialized Total War. 
For example, War Status increases when the British 1st and Second 
Armies enter play because of the importance of Britain’s break from 
its traditional reliance on sea power. 
Second, through the rules for Combined War Status, it shows the vari-
ous effects of such a prolonged and costly struggle on national morale, 
politics, and diplomacy. As the intensity of the war increases unstable 
Russia grows more vulnerable (the Russian Capitualtion track) while 
the United States finds it increasingly difficult to stay out of the war 
(through the US Entry track). In this way the Great Retreat adds War 
Status because refugees in western Russia undermine Russian morale, 
while the Lusitania increases War Status because it pushes the US 
towards joining the Allies. Increased CP play of War Status to weaken 
Russia increases the chance of US Entry. Likewise Allied action to 
hurry the US into the war increases the chance of Russia’s exit. This 
see-saw effect not only presents an interesting game problem for both 
players, but effectively captures the dynamic that led to both US entry 
and the Fall of the Tsar in the space of a few weeks.
Finally, through the Armistice mechanism, the effect of war weariness 
outside Russia is introduced. If the war ends in an Armistice (histori-
cally on turn 19) the losing side is considered to have asked for terms. 
If neither side is winning at the point, either negotiation or mutual 
exhaustion has brought the war to a close.
Victory Conditions
The Victory Conditions were designed both in the interests of play 
balance, as a measure against the historical outcome, and to provide op-
erational reasons to fight certain campaigns on the ground. For example, 
the Turks kept a full corps at Medina throughout the war. By making it 
a VP space they have reason to do so in the game. 
The Peace Term rules really represent the propaganda war, as much in-
ternal as external, between the two sides. As in the real war, a player will 
make an offer of peace only when he feels he is in a position of strength 
(ahead in VPs). The purpose of such an offer is to score propaganda 
points (in the game a VP) though if the offer is too obviously insincere it 
can backfire (costing a VP). If a Peace Offer is accepted real diplomacy 
has replaced posturing-and though the side that made the offer may be 
assumed to get the better of the resulting deal, in game terms the result 
is a draw because you’ve failed to turn an edge into outright victory. It 
is against the spirit of the game, btw, to accept a Peace Offer if you still 
think you have a chance to win.
Dedication
Let me end by thanking Mark Herman, to whom PoG is clearly indebted; 
Ben Knight for helping me sell the game to TAHGC (even if it was in 
the end not to be); everyone at GMT; Steve Kosakowski, Jim Eliason, 
John Walker, Ananda Gupta, Bob Irelan and everyone else who helped 
with the game in one way or another over the years; and finally to Joanne 
Spera, for her support and understanding.
—Ted S. Raicer, April 6, 1999

Extended Example
This extended example of play will demonstrate how many of the 
game’s mechanics work and will give you some initial strategy 
ideas. The game was conducted by email between Gene Billing-
sley, as the Allied player, and Andy Lewis, the game’s developer, 
as the Central Powers. Neither player was an expert on strategy, 
as the comments provided by the game’s designer, Ted Raicer, 
will show. The idea is to give you a feel for the game and all 
the different choices there are to make and decide between. We 
suggest that you set the game up and move the pieces on your 
map as you read the example.
A unit is at full strength in the example below unless its name 
is enclosed in parentheses [i.e. FR 5th Army is full strength and 
(FR 5th Army) is at reduced strength].
The Central Powers have chosen to start the game with the Guns 
of August card in their hand. Therefore, they only draw six other 
cards initially so that their hand is seven cards. The Allied player 
draws seven cards for his initial hand.
August 1914 - Mandated Offensive Phase
The Central Powers’ die roll is 4 which means a German unit 
must make an attack in Belgium, France, or Germany this turn 
or the VP level will decrease by one.
The Allied die roll is 2 which means a French unit must make an 
attack in Belgium, France, or Germany this turn or the VP level 
will increase by one.
August 1914 - Action Phase
Central Powers Action 1
Play Guns of August (Central Powers Card #1) as an Event. 
Move the Central Powers and Combined War Status markers to 
2. Place a destroyed marker in Liege. Advance the GE 1st and 
2nd Armies into Liege.
The GE 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Armies attack the FR 5th Army in Se-
dan.
The Central Powers die roll is 2 which is checked on the 15 
column of the Army Fire Table. The result is a Loss Number of 
5; therefore, the FR 5th Army loses one step for three points of 
the Loss Number. They do not lose a second step because the 
LF is still 3 on the reduced side of the army and only 2 points of 
the Loss Number are unfulfilled.
The Allied die roll is 3 on the 3 column of the Army Fire Table. 
The result is a Loss Number of 2, but since the lowest German 
LF is 3, there is no effect.
Western Front Set up and opening move (Guns of August Card #1) by the Central Power Player.

Eastern Front Set up and opening Russian attack.
The Allied loses the combat and must retreat 2 spaces because 
the difference in Loss Numbers is 2 or greater (maximum retreat 
is two spaces).
The (FR 5th Army) retreats through Chateau‑Thierry to Cambrai 
(Note that a retreat does not have to leave you 2 spaces from 
where you started — unlike other games).
The 2nd and 3rd GE Armies advance into Sedan (they can’t advance 
further because Sedan is a Forest space). 
This attack fulfills the Central Powers Mandated Offensive for the 
turn. The Guns of August card is removed from the game because 
it is marked with an ‘*’ and was played as an Event.
Comment: A standard cautious Central Powers opening. 
(Openings without the Guns of August tend to make the 
early turns quite unpredictable.) Given the 66% chance of 
success and the marginal effect (vs. a single FR army) of 
failure, the Central Powers should have attempted the flank 
attack. The Allied decision to retreat to Cambrai is question-
able considering German movement restrictions; a better 
alternative might be Melun.
Allied Action 1
Play Russian Reinforcements (Allied Card #3) as a 3 OPS. 
Activate Bar de Luc for movement and Dubno and Kamenets 
Podolski for attack.
(FR 9th Army) moves from Bar de Luc to Chateau-Thierry.
Comment: If the FR 5th had retreated to Melun, it would not 
be necessary to use an OPS moving the FR 9th, as Chateau-
Thierry would effectively be a “kill zone” vs. the Central 
Powers units.
The RU 3rd Army [3 CF] in Dubno and RU 8th Army [3 CF] in 
Kamenets Podolski attack the AH 3rd Army in Tarnopol. The 
Russians declare a flank attack. They roll a 4 which is modified 
to 5 for the RU 3rd Army which is not adjacent to an enemy 
occupied space except the defending space. The flank attack is 
successful so the Russians will get to fire first and the AH will 
have to absorb those losses before returning fire.
The Allied die roll is a 3 on the 6 column of the Army Fire Table 
which is a Loss Number of 4. The AH 3rd Army is reduced to 
satisfy 2 points of the loss and is reduced again for another 2 
points. The AH 3rd Army is placed in the eliminated/replaceable 
box and is replaced by an AH corps.
The AH corps now gets to fire 1 CF on the Corps Fire Table. The 
die roll is a 4 which causes a Loss Number of 1. Since the small-
est Allied LF is 2, the Allied player take no losses. The AH corps 
now retreats 2 spaces through Stanislaw to Czernowitz.
The RU 3rd Army advances into Tarnapol.
Central Powers Action 2
Play Sud Army (Central Powers Card #10) as a 3 OPS. Activate 
Oppelin and Munkacs for movement and Sedan for Attack.
Move the (GE Corps) from Oppelin to Czestokhova [Place a 
The Central Powers control marker as the unit exits the space] 
to Lodz. As the Central Powers now control Lodz, move the VP 
marker to the 11 box.
Comment: A more aggressive move would send the GE 8th 
Army to Lodz (and its corps to Konigsberg). Since it is nec-
essary to move the 8th at the latest by the 1st Action of Turn 
2-to prevent its being cut off-this would kill two birds.
Move the (AH 2nd Army) from Munkacs to Czernowitz.
Comment: A potentially disastrous move. By moving the 
RU 4th to Lemberg, the 3rd and 8th can put the AH forces in 
Czernowitz OOS. 
The 2nd and 3rd GE Armies in Sedan attack the (Fr 5th Army) in 
Cambrai.
No flank attack can be attempted since only one activated space 
is adjacent to the defending space.
The FR play the Withdrawal CC card (Allied Card #6).
The Central Powers die roll is 4 which on the 10 column is a 
Loss Number of 5. Normally the army step and both corps steps 
would be lost but withdrawal saves the corps.
The Allied die roll is 6 which on the 2 column is a Loss Number 
of 3. The GE 2nd Army is reduced.
The (FR corps) retreats only one space to Amiens because of 
the Withdrawal CC card. The Withdrawal card is removed from 
the game because it is marked with an ‘*’ and was played as an 
Event.

The GE 3rd Army advances into Cambrai [The GE 2nd Army 
can’t advance because it’s reduced]. The VP marker is moved 
to 12.
Comment: Another risky Central Powers move, as the GE 
3rd is somewhat out on a limb. 
Allied Action 2
Play Blockade (Allied Card #2) as a 4 OPS. Activate Chateau-
Thierry, Verdun, Tarnopol, and Kamenets Podolski for attack. 
[The Allied player wanted to activate Brussels as well to join 
Chateau-Thierry and Verdun in the attack on Sedan but couldn’t 
since none of the spaces have both FR and BR units in them to 
allow a multinational attack.]
The (FR 9th Army) [2 CF] in Chateau-Thierry and the FR 3rd 
and 4th Armies [3 CF each] in Verdun attack the (GE 2nd Army) 
in Sedan.
The Allied die roll is 5 which on the 6-8 column gives a Loss 
Number of 5. The (GE 2nd Army) [3 LF] is eliminated and re-
placed by a GE Corps [1 LF] which is reduced [1 LF] and then 
eliminated to fulfill the Loss Number.
The Central Powers die roll is 3 that on the 3 column gives a 
Loss Number of 2. The Allied losses nothing since their lowest 
LF 3 which is higher than their Loss Number. The FR 3rd Army 
advances into Sedan. This satisfies the French MO. 
The GE 3rd Army is now out of supply and can not be activated; 
if it is still out of supply during the Attrition Phase, it will be 
permanently eliminated.
The RU 3rd Army in Tarnopol and the RU 8th Army in Kamenets 
Podolski attack the (AH 2nd Army) and two AH Corps in Cer-
nowitz.
The RU play the Pleve CC (Allied Card #4) for a +1 drm.
The Central Powers die roll is 3 for a Loss Number of 2 which 
reduces the RU 3rd Army.
The Allied die roll is 2 modified to 3 which is a Loss Number 
of 4. The Central Powers chooses to completely eliminate the 
two Corps. The (AH 2nd) Army retreats through Stanislaw to 
Munkacs. 
The RU 8th Army advances. The VP marker is reduced to 11. The 
Pleve card is removed from the game because it is marked with 
an ‘*’ and was played as an Event.
Comment: An effective Allied round, but given the Central 
Powers situation, a wasted opportunity. 3 OPS could have 
put the AH right wing OOS, while an attack from Verdun 
was made on Sedan. With a bit of luck the Central Powers 
would have had forces OOS on both fronts.
Central Powers Action 3
Play German Reinforcements (Central Powers Card #12) as a 4 
OPS. Activate Liege, Metz, Timisvar, and Novi Sad for attack.
Comment: Either this or the GE 9th should be saved as a 
reinforcement card for next turn.
The GE 1st Army in Liege and the GE 4th and 5th Armies in Metz 
attack the FR 3rd Army in Sedan.
The Central Powers die roll is 4 which results in a Loss Number 
of 7. The FR 3rd Army is eliminated and the Corps which replaces 
it is reduced.
The Allied die roll is 3 which results in a Loss Number of 2 for 
no effect.
The (FR Corps) retreats through Verdun to Chateau‑Thierry. 
The GE 4th Army advances into Sedan. The GE 3rd Army in 
Cambrai is back in supply.
Comment: The GE 3rd is rescued-for now-but is still at risk.
The AH Corps in Timisvar and the AH 5th Army in Novi Sad 
attack the SB 1st Army in Belgrade.
A flank attack is attempted and the die roll is 4 modified by +1 
for the non-pinning unit which is successful. If the SB 1st Army 
had not been in the space, a flank attack could not have been at-
tempted since you can not flank attack an unoccupied fort.
The Central Powers die roll is 3 which results in a Loss Number 
of 3. The SB 1st Army is reduced for 2 points of the Loss Num-
ber. The third point is ignored. The fort can not lose a step if a 
friendly unit is in its space.
Now the (SB 1st Army) and the fort fire. The die roll is 6 which 
causes a Loss Number of 3. Both AH units are reduced. This is 
the only way that all three points of the Loss Number could be 
satisfied. Since the results are equal, there is no retreat.
Comment: With the Central Powers fully engaged east and 
west, this is no time to bother with the Serbs.
Allied Action 3
Play RU Reinforcements (Allied Card #8) as a 2 OPS. Activate 
Amiens and Nancy for movement. 
Move the (FR corps) in Amiens to Brussels. Move the FR 1st 
Army from Nancy to Verdun.
Central Powers Action 4
Play German Reinforcements (Central Powers Card #7) as a 3 
OPS. Activate Insterberg for movement and Cambrai and Sedan 
for attack.
Comment: This means no GE reinforcements are possible 
next turn.
The GE 8th Army and GE Corps move from Insterberg to Ko-
nigsberg.
The GE 3rd Army in Cambai and the GE 4th Army in Sedan attack 
the (FR 9th Army) and (FR Corps) in Chateau‑Thierry.
The Central Powers die roll is 6 which causes a Loss Number of 
7 destroying the army and both Corps - the one there at the begin-
ning of combat and the replacement Corps for the 9th Army..
The Allied die roll is 5 which causes a Loss Number of 3 which 
reduces the GE 3rd Army.

Move the RU 3rd Army from Tarnopol to Lemburg. Move the VP 
marker down to 10. Move the FR Corps in Grenoble to Paris.
The FR 1st and 4th Armies in Verdun attack the (GE 3rd Army) 
and (GE 4th Army) in Sedan.
The Allied die roll is 5 which causes a Loss Number of 5. The 
GE 3rd Army and its replacement Corps are both eliminated.
The Central Powers die roll is 4 which causes a Loss Number of 
4. The FR 1st Army is reduced.
The (GE 4th Army) retreats one space to Koblenz.
The RU 8th Army in Czernowitz attacks the (AH 2nd Army) at 
Munkacs.
No flank attack can be attempted and no CC are played.
The RU attack is shifted from the 3 col to the 2 column due to 
the mountain in the Munkacs space.
The Allied die roll is 3 which causes a Loss Number of 2. 
The Central Powers die roll is 1 which causes a Loss Number of 
0. 
The AH 2nd Army is eliminated and the replacement AH Corps 
retreats through Cluj to Drebecen. 
August 1914 - Attrition Phase
Nothing happens - everyone and all spaces (including Cambrai 
for the Central Powers since they control Sedan also) are in 
supply.
August 1914 - Siege Phase
Nothing happens - no forts are besieged.
August 1914 - War Status Phase
Nothing happens.
August 1914 - Replacement Phase
The Central Powers spends 1 AH RP each to recreate the (AH 
2nd Army) and (AH 3rd Army) in Budapest and spends 1 GE RP 
each to recreate the (GE 2nd Army) and (GE 3rd Army) in Essen 
and to flip the 4th GE Army to its full strength side. 
August 1914 - Draw Strategy Card Phase
The Allied draws seven cards since he has none in his hand.
The Central Powers draws six cards since he still has one card in 
his hand. If the remaining card in his hand had been a CC card, 
he could have discarded it before drawing cards and been able 
to draw seven cards.
September 1914 - Mandated Offensive Phase
The Central Powers die roll is 1 which means an Austro-Hun-
garian unit must make an attack in this turn or the VP level will 
decrease by one.
The Allied die roll is 5 and since Italy is currently neutral, the 
Allied player does not have to make any attacks this turn.
Comment: The GE 8th is now safe, but as noted previously, 
an earlier move to Lodz would have been more effective. 
And the 3rd at Cambrai is still in danger.
Allied Action 4
Play Moltke (Allied Card #9) as a 3 OPS. Activate Brussels and 
Verdun for attack.
Brussels costs 2 OPS points since FR and BR units are stacked 
in the space. The (FR Corps) and BR BEF Army in Brussels 
and the FR 1st and FR 3rd Armies in Verdun attacking the GE 4th 
Army in Sedan.
A flank attack is attempted and the die roll of 6 makes it suc-
cessful.
The Allied die roll is 2 which reduces the GE 4th Army. 
The Central Powers now fires on the 3 column. The die roll is 
2 which causes a Loss Number of 2 so the (FR Corps) is elimi-
nated. All the other units have a LF of 3 so 1 point of the Loss 
Number is ignored.
The GE Army retreats through Koblenz to Liege. No units 
advance.
Comment: With no advance after combat, Sedan remains 
Central Powers controlled, and the GE 3rd in supply.
Central Powers Action 5
Play Falkenhayn (Central Powers Card #13) as an RP card. 
Move the AH RP marker to the 2 space on the General Records 
Track and the GE RP to the 3 space.
Comment: This can wait till the last play. Instead, the 3rd 
should be withdrawn to Sedan.
Allied Action 5
Take the automatic “1 OPS”. No card is played. Activate Antwerp 
for movement. 
The BE 1st Army moves to Brussels.
Comment: Once again the Allied player fails to take advan-
tage of a chance to isolate an enemy army. The BE should 
have move to Sedan. Stacking it with the BEF only increases 
the OPS cost for both, as they can freely stack only in Ant-
werp, Ostend, Calais and Amiens.
Central Powers Action 6
Play von Francois (Central Powers Card #3) as 2 OPS. Activate 
Cambrai and Liege for movement. 
Move the (GE 3rd Army) from Cambrai to Sedan and the (GE 4th 
Army) from Liege to Sedan. 
Allied Action 6
Play BR 2nd Army (Allied Card #1) as a 4 OPS. Activate Grenoble 
and Tarnopol for movement and Verdun and Czernowitz for 
attack. 

September 1914 - Action Phase
Central Powers Action 1
Play Oberost (Central Powers Card #) as an Event.
Move the Central Powers and Combined War Status markers to 
the 3 box. The Germans can now attack spaces containing RU 
forts. The Oberost card is removed from the game because it is 
Comment: This is not the time to play this, since the GE 
have no offensive force in the east to take advantage of it. 
Either play an OPS to grab control of the tempo, or better 
yet, play the Landwehr event and bring those armies in Es-
sen up to strength.
Allied Action 1
Play BR Reinforcements (Allied Card #14) as an Event.
Place the BR 1st Army in London and a BR Corps in the Reserve 
Box. The Allied War Status marker moves into the 1 box. The 
Combined War Status marker is moved into the 4 box. The BR 
Reinforcements card is removed from the game because it is 
Comment: Playing Reinforcements will help counter the cur-
rent Central Powers replacement advantage, especially since 
the Central Powers didn’t save a GE reinforcement card.
Central Powers Action 2
Play Reichstag Truce (Central Powers Card #9) as an Event.
Move VP marker to the 11 box. Move the Central Powers War 
Status marker to the 4 box; the Central Powers are now free to 
move into the coastal spaces in France and Belgium. The Central 
Powers will go to Limited War Commitment Level during the 
War Status Phase. Move the Combined War Status marker to 
the 5 box. The Reichstag Truce card is removed from the game 
because it is marked with an ‘*’ and was played as an Event.
Comment: Once again the timing is questionable. Lifting the 
movement restrictions isn’t that important when you aren’t 
in a position to head for the Channel anyway. 
Allied Action 2
Play Entrench (Allied Card #12) as a 3 OPS. Activate London 
and Brussels for movement.
Move the BR 1st Army from London to Brussels. Move the BE 
1st Army from Brussels to Cambrai. VP marker is moved back 
to 10.
Comments: The Allies are right to get the BR 1st into play 
ASAP, but are paying the cost in a wasted OP for pointlessly 
moving the BE to Brussels last turn.
Central Powers Action 3
Play Landwehr (Central Powers Card #5) as an Event.
The (GE 2nd Army) and (GE 3rd Army) are flipped to full strength. 
The Landwehr card is removed from the game because it is 
Comments: Better late than never, but that’s three rounds in 
a row with no movement or combat. 
Allied Action 3
Play French Reinforcement (Allied Card #10) as an Event. 
Place the FR 10th Army in Paris. The French Reinforcements card 
is removed from the game because it is marked with an ‘*’ and 
was played as an Event.
Central Powers Action 4
Play Race to the Sea (Central Powers Card #8) as a 3 OPS. Ac-
tivate Essen, Koblenz, and Budapest for movement. 
Move the GE 2nd and 3rd Armies from Essen to Sedan. Move the 
GE 4th Army from Koblenz to Sedan. Move (AH 2nd Army) and 
(AH 3rd Army) from Budapest to Munkacs. 
Comments: Finally!
Allied Action 4
Play Putnik (Allied Card #5) as a 2 OPS. Activate Paris and 
Belfort for movement. 
Move the FR Corps in Paris to Brussels. Move one FR Corps in 
Belfort to Chateau‑Thierry. 
Central Powers Action 5
Play Wireless Intercepts (Central Powers Card #2) as a 2 OPS. 
Activate Sedan and Prsemysl for attack. 
The AH 4th Army in Przemysl attacks the (RU 3rd Army) in 
Lemberg.
The Central Powers die roll is 3 which causes a Loss Number of 
2. The RU 3rd Army is eliminated and replaced by a Corps.
The Allied die roll is 5 which causes as Loss Number of 3. The 
AH 4th Army is reduced. 
This satisfies the Central Powers Mandated Offensive for the 
turn.
Comments: With the 8th Army sitting in Konigsberg, the 
AH armies must carry the ball alone. Nothing wrong with 
this attack, but why hit with an AH army when you have 
a GE one?
The GE 2nd Army in Sedan attacks the FR Corps in Chateau-Thi-
erry. Due to the disparity in the combat tables, the CP completely 
destroys the French Corps and will not possibly take any damage 
in return. The Central Powers do not advance.
The GE 3rd and 4th Armies in Sedan attack the BE 1st Army in 
Cambrai.
The Central Powers die roll is 5 which causes a Loss Number of 
5. The BE 1st Army is reduced.
The Allied die roll is a 3 which causes a Loss Number of 2 for 
no effect.
The (BE 1st Army) retreats through Amiens to Calais.
The Central Powers do not advance.

Comments: Reasonable, but given the relative War Status, 
it might have been better to play this as an event, especially 
if the RU 9th and 10th Armies were in play.
September 1914 - Attrition Phase
No attrition. 
September 1914 - Siege Phase
Siege of Nancy. The Central Powers needs a die roll is of 5 or 6 
(because of the –2 drm on Turns 1 and 2). The die roll is 4 and 
Nancy holds out.
September 1914 - War Status Phase
The Central Powers enters Limited War, bringing Turkey into the 
conflict. The Turkish units are placed on the map. The Central 
Powers discard the Severe Weather CC (Central Powers Card 
#4) that was still in their hand. They then shuffle all the Mobili-
zation cards (except Guns of August, Oberost, Reichstag Truce, 
and Landwehr) and the Limited War cards together to form a 
new Draw Pile.
September 1914 - Replacement Phase
The Allied player uses 2 of the 3 RU RPs to recreate the 3rd Army 
and put it in the “To Caucasus” space.
The A1 is used to flip the BE 1st Army to full strength. 
The BEF can’t be replaced, so the BR RPs are used to bring the 
three BR Corps in the Near East up to full strength. 
2 FR RPs recreate the FR 2nd and 3rd Armies at reduced strength. 
The (FR 2nd Army) is placed in Paris, which is now fully stacked, 
so the (FR 3rd Army) is placed in Orleans. [Rule 9.5.3.3.]. 
September 1914 - Draw Strategy Card Phase
The Allies discard a CC, reshuffle their mobilization cards (except 
the removed events) and draws 7 cards.
The Central Powers draws 7 cards.
Comments: Two turns of mistakes and missed opportuni-
ties alternating with effective play by both sides. In short, 
a typical first two turns by inexperienced PoG players. The 
situation at this point is pretty balanced, and the end result 
impossible to predict.
The game is in your hands now. Continue this one or start over 
and try to make less strategy mistakes than we did. Either way, 
we hope enjoy the tough decisions.
Andy, Gene, and Ted
Comments: The GE are right not to advance. An effective 
use of 1 OPS to make 2 attacks.
Allied Action 5
Play RU Reinforcements (Allied Card #11) as a 3 OPS. Activate 
Verdun and Brussels for attack.
Comments: Giving up two badly needed RU armies. The 
Allied attack is fine; the card being used isn’t.
The (FR 1st Army) and FR 4th Army in Verdun and the BR BEF 
Army, BR 1st Army, and FR Corps in Brussels attack the GE 2nd, 
3rd, and 4th Armies in Sedan
The Allied attempt a flank attack and are successful with a die 
roll is of 5.
The Allied die roll is 6 which causes a Loss Number of 7. The GE 
2nd Army is eliminated and its replacement Corps is reduced.
The Central Powers now only has 11 CF to return fire with. The 
Central Powers die roll is 1 which causes a loss number of 3. The 
BR BEF Army must take the first loss if possible [See 12.4.5], 
and so is reduced.
The GE 4th Army retreats to Koblenz, the GE 3rd Army to Metz, 
and the (GE Corps) to Strasbourg. 
Central Powers Action 6
Play Entrench (Central Powers Card #6) as a 3 OPS. Activate 
Metz, Strasbourg, and Mulhouse for attack. 
The (GE 7th Army) in Mulhouse attacks the FR Corps and FR Fort 
in Belfort. 3 CF shifted one column left for trench. The Central 
Powers die roll is 5 and the Corps destroyed. 
The FR have 3 CF shifted one column right but on the Corps 
table so they can’t inflict a loss. 
The (GE 7th Army) can’t advance because it is reduced.
The GE 3rd Army and GE 5th Army in Metz and the GE 6th Army 
and (GE Corps) in Strasbourg attack the FR 2nd Army and FR 
Fort in Nancy.
The 16 GE CF are shifted to the 15 column. The FR 5 CF are 
shifted to the 6‑8 column.
Both sides roll a 6.
The FR 2nd Army goes to a reduced corps which retreats via 
Verdun to Bar de Luc. 
The GE 5th Army is reduced and the 3rd and 6th Armies advance. 
The Trench marker is removed. 
Allied Action 6
Play Rape of Belgium (Allied Card #13) as a Replacement 
Card.
Move the Allied RP marker to the 1 space on the General Re-
cords Track, the FR RP and the BR RP markers to the 2 space, 
and the RU RP marker to the 2 space. The IT RP marker is not 
moved because Italy is neutral; no nation can receive replace-
ments when neutral.

GREECE
•	 Limited entry (Salonika event card): GK units placed but cannot 
actiavate or be attacked. Salonika and Kavalla are in play.
•	 Greek Entry releases GK units to activate but does not restrict 
play of Salonika or MEF.
•	 Note: MEF card can be played as a normal reinforcement after 
Salonika. 9.5.3.4
ITALY / RUMANIA ENTRY
•	 May only be played as an event or discarded if CP are at TW 
and AL are not.
GERMAN
Restrictions before reaching War Status 4 (or Event play):
•	 No attack (but besiege is OK) on RU forts (Oberost).
•	 No ending movement in or SR into (advance after combat OK) 
Ostend, Calais, or Amiens (Race to the Sea)
NEAR EAST SPECIAL RULES
Activation and Movement
•	 Only NE Armies can move or attack in the Near East: MEF, 
NE, OR, CAU, YLD, AoI. If placed as Reinf in their nation, 
they lose their NE ability (9.5.3.4).
•	 Russia: only 1 Corps per turn can switch maps. Never an Army. 
After Tsar Fell event, only by SR.
•	 Allied can activate only 1 space for combat per round, in ad-
dition to the MEF Beachhead and the space containing the NE 
Army.
•	 Beach supplied units: MEF costs 3 OPS to activate, Corps 1 
OPS each.
Supply and Control
•	 Only BR and AUS units may be supplied through the MEF 
Beachhead, and no Army other than MEF.
•	 SN and ANA Corps are always supplied.
•	 ANA does not gain control of spaces it goes through.
•	 Turkish units in Medina are supplied (suffer no attrition).
•	 Allied supply by sea through Constantinople requires control 
of Gallipoli.
SR and RP
•	 CP (except Turkey): SR only 1 Corps per turn.
•	 Russia: only 1 Corps + Corps SR per turn and no Army can 
switch maps. Only in spaces within Russia.
•	 British: SR only 1 BR or AUS Corps per turn by sea (no CND, 
PT or BEF).
•	 No SR from Reserve Box to SN or ANA space.
•	 ANA Corps is replaced directly on map (as Allies RP).
•	 Allied SR by sea through Constantinople requires control of 
Gallipoli.
•	 Sinai attack: –3drm
•	 Desert: restrictions in Summer (see Terrain Charts).
Paths of Glory Exceptions and Special Rules
BRITISH
•	 1 OPS activation cost if stacked with BE in Antwerp, Ostend, 
Calais, or Amiens (11.1.9).
•	 BEF limited to BE/GE/FR/England.
•	 BEF corps cannot replace BR Armies. BR corps cannot replace 
BEF.
•	 No attack from London alone. Dotted line does not add to flank 
drm.
•	 Loss priority if attacking: 1. BEF or BEF corps; 2. MEF; 3. 
AUS/CND.
BRITISH ALLIED NATIONS (AUS, CND, PT, ANA)
•	 Activate as BR, replaced as Allies.
•	 Cannot replace BR reduced Army.
•	 Cannot use BR-specific CC cards.
•	 Cannot be used with Salonika or Africa event.
RUSSIAN
•	 SR only inside Russia. No SR by sea.
•	 Near East: “To Caucasus” Entry/Exit limit of 1 Corps by SR 
and 1 Corps by movement per turn
•	 Loss priority if attacking: CAU.
•	 August ‘14 restriction: no attack/move on GE forts.
FRENCH
•	 1 OPS if stacked with US in France or Germany.
•	 Reinf can be placed in Orl if Paris is fully stacked (but NOT if 
Paris is enemy-controlled or besieged).
AMERICAN
•	 1 OPS activation cost if stacked with FR units in FR/GE.
•	 Reinforcements placed on FR ports spaces. US corps can SR 
to FR ports.
•	 No more than 1 Reinf per turn (after Over There event).
•	 1 RP with every Allied RP card play (after Over There 
event).
 BELGIUM
•	 1 OPS activation cost if stacked with BR in Antwerp, Ostend, 
Calais, or Amiens (11.1.9).
•	 SR and RP not restricted when Brussels is enemy controlled.
•	 Can rebuild BE 1 (RP) in Brussels, Antwerp, Ostend, or Calais 
if others unavailable.
SERBIA
•	 SR and RP not restricted when Belgrade is enemy-controlled.
•	 Can rebuild Army (RP) in Belgrade (if Nis is not CP controlled) 
or Salonika.
•	 Always supplied in Serbia.
•	 Salonika and Russian off map boxes are supply sources.
MONTENEGRO
•	 Unit is always supplied. Can only move via SR to/from the 
RB and Cintinje.
ALBANIA
•	 Allied from the beginning.
•	 Spaces trace supply during attrition to Taranto while IT is 
neutral.

Bulgaria
Sofia: 2 Corps
Any other 4 spaces in Bulgaria: 1 Corps 
each space
Greece
Florina: 1 Corps
Larisa: 1 Corps
Athens: 1 Corps
Italy
Allied Reserve Box: 4 Corps
Turin: 1 Corps
Verona: (1st Army)
Asiago: (4th Army)
Maggiore: (3rd Army)
Udine: (2nd Army)
Rome: 1 Corps
Taranto: 1 Corps
Persia
Persia has no units and may be entered 
freely by either side after Turkey enters 
the war.
Romania
Bucharest: 2 Corps
Any other 4 spaces in Romania: 1 Corps 
each space
Turkey
Adrianople: 1 Corps
Gallopoli: 1 Corps
Constantinople: 1 Corps
Balikesir: 1 Corps
Ankara: 1 Corps
Adana: 1 Corps
Rize: 1 Corps
Erzerum: 1 Corps
Giresun: Trench 1
Van: 1 Corps
Mosul: 1 Corps
Bagdhad: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Damascus: 1 Corps
Gaza: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Medina: 1 Corps
USA
The US enters the war with no units. All US 
units enter through Reinforcement Cards.
See 4.2.4 for an alternative set up.
Note: A unit in ( ) is at reduced strength; 
set it up on its reverse side.
Central Powers Set Up
Austria-Hungary
CP Reserve Box: 5 Corps
Eastern Front
Cracow: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Tarnow: 1st Army
Przemysl: 4th Army
Tarnopol: 3rd Army
Czernowitz: 1 Corps
Munkacs: (2nd Army)
Serbian Front
Timisvar: 1 Corps
Novi Sad: 5th Army
Sarajevo: 6th Army
Italian Front
Trent: Trench 1
Villach: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Trieste: Trench 1
Germany
CP Reserve Box: 8 Corps 
Western Front
Bremen: (1 Corps)
Aachen: 1st Army
Koblenz: 2nd and 3rd Armies
Metz: 4th and 5th Armies, Trench 1
Strasbourg: 6th Army
Mulhouse: (7th Army), Trench 1
Eastern Front
Konigsberg: Trench 1
Insterberg: 8th Army and 1 Corps
Oppeln: (1 Corps)
Allied Powers Set Up
Belgium
Antwerp: 1st Army
Allied Reserve Box: 1 Corps
Britain
Allied Reserve Box: 1 Corps and 1 BEF 
Corps
Brussels: BEF Army, Trench 1
Near East Front
Port Said: (1 Corps), Trench 1
Cairo: (1 Corps), Trench 1
Basra: (1 Corps), Trench 1
France
Allied Reserve Box: 7 Corps
Sedan: 5th Army
Verdun: 3rd and 4th Armies, Trench 1
Nancy: 1st and 2nd Armies, Trench 1
Belfort: 2 Corps, Trench 1
Bar le Duc: (9th Army)
Paris: (6th Army), Trench 1
Grenoble: 1 Corps
Montenegro
Cintinje: 1 Corps
Russia
Allied Reserve Box: 6 Corps 
Riga: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Szawli: 1 Corps
Kovno: 1st Army
Grodno: 1 Corps
Lomza: 2nd Army
Ivangorod: 4th Army
Lublin: 5th Army
Dubno: 3rd Army
Kamenets Podolski: 8th Army
Odessa: 1 Corps, Trench 1
Near East Front
Batum: 1 Corps
Kars: 1 Corps
Erivan: 1 Corps
Serbia
Allied Reserve Box: 2 Corps 
Belgrade: 1st Army 
Valjevo: 2nd Army
Neutral Set Up
The following units are set up in the 
spaces listed only after that nation enters 
the war.
Albania
Albania has no units and may be entered 
by either side at any time.
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com