GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
A Richard Berg Design
PART A: OVERVIEW
1.
Introduction ....................................................... 2
2.
Components....................................................... 3
3.
General Course of Play ..................................... 6
4.
Player Interaction .............................................. 8
PART B: GETTING AND SPENDING
5.
Control............................................................... 9
6.
Getting and Spending ...................................... 11
7.
Cities and Towns ............................................. 13
PART C: OPERATIONS
8.
Leaders ............................................................ 15
9.
Land Movement .............................................. 17
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
10. Land Battles..................................................... 18
11. Naval Operations ............................................. 25
PART D: OTHER UNITS
12. Special Units ................................................... 29
13. Barbarians, Rebels, and Tribes ........................ 33
PART E: STABILITY AND VICTORY
14. Stability ........................................................... 36
15. Victory ............................................................. 37
PART F: EVENTS
16. Events (Standard Game Only)......................... 39
17. Event Cards (Advanced Game Only) .............. 40
Rules of Play
Living Rules
June 5, 2006

PART A. OVERVIEW
1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1 The Standard Game
1.2 The Advanced Game
1.3 Game Scale
1.4 Abbreviations And Glossary
1.5 Questions
2.0 COMPONENTS
2.1 The Map
2.2 Combat Counters
2.3 The Objective Opportunity Markers
2.4 The Event Cards (Advanced Game Only)
2.5 Talents
2.6 The Dice
3.0 GENERAL COURSE OF PLAY
3.1 Initial Deployment
3.2 Sequence Of Play
3.3 Initiative
3.4 Activations
3.5 Operations In General
3.6 First Turn Restrictions
3.7 How To Win
3.8 Length Of Play
4.0 PLAYER INTERACTION
4.1 Alliances (Standard Game Only)
4.2 Alliances (Advanced Game Only)
4.3 Bribery
4.4 Talking The Talk (Optional Rule)
(1.0) INTRODUCTION
Pax Romana is a game covering the struggle for power in the
Mediterranean from c. 300 BC to 50 BC Because of the depth
and breadth of its scope, we present the game in two formats:
• The Standard Game, for players who want a fun, interesting
game playable in an evening;
• The Advanced Game, for gamers who want as much detail
and decision-making for the military, economic and political
problems and situations of the era as can be had at this scale,
and do not mind a longer game.
All rules in this booklet apply to the Standard Game except those
identified in the rules as belonging only to the Advanced Game.
Some rules bear the notation “Standard Game Only.” In all cases,
these rules (and they are few) have corresponding but different
rules for the Advanced Game.
The game has several scenarios, covering different eras within
the game’s time period, so that the game may be played by two
to four people. Also included are instructions and guidelines for
playing the four-player scenarios by 1, 2, or 3 players, and for
playing the game with email or live online.
(1.1) THE STANDARD GAME
The Standard Game is aimed at players who want a game of
moderate complexity that also presents some of the major issues
and inter-relationships of the period. The game dispenses with
the Event Cards, instead using (if the players choose) randomly
chosen Event markers. The game also dispenses with some of
the rules of the Advanced Game in order to keep playing time
shorter. Three of the scenarios have been designed as “Standard
Game Only” scenarios, while the main four-player scenario can
be played with either the Standard Game or the Advanced Game
rules; the scenario instructions (see the Play Book) explain how.
(1.2) THE ADVANCED GAME
The major new addition of the Advanced Game is card-play,
using the deck of 55 cards to provide a wide selection of random
events and an increase in player interaction. The Advanced Game
also includes additional unit types and additional rules for the
events determined by the playing cards. Three scenarios have
been designed for the Advanced Game Only, while one, the main
four-player scenario, can be played with either the Standard
Games or the Advanced Game rules (see the Play Book).
(1.3) GAME SCALE
Turns are “generational”, roughly 25 years of “real” time. Each
LG or HI infantry unit represents about 7,000 men; each LI unit
about 5000. Each cavalry unit is around 2500 mounted men.
Each Galley Squadron represents 50 war galleys.
(1.4) ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
The following terms and abbreviations are used throughout the
rules:
Activation: The major unit of play, during which players con-
duct military, recruitment, and construction operations.
Activation Marker: Game markers, selected randomly during
the Operations Phase of each Game-Turn, that determine the
order in which Players become Active.
Active: The Player, Army, Fleet, or Unit operating under the
Activation marker currently in play.
AM: Activation marker
Army: A stack of land units. See also Force and Unit.
Battle Point: The unit of strength for combat units, cities, and
towns.
Battle Space: The Space in which a Battle is to be fought. It is
the Space which the Attacker enters (by movement or intercep-
tion) in order to fight, whether or not the Battle actually occurs.
BP: Battle Point
Capitals: Roma (Rome), Carthage (Carthage), Athens and Pella
(Greece), Alexandria and Antioch (The East)
Control: Land Units, Garrisons, Towns, and Cities occupy (and
control) the spaces they’re in. On their own, Elephants, Leaders,
and Galley Squadrons do not. See 5.0 for all types of Control.

CVP: Civilization Points, which along with GOP and OOP, de-
termine the number of Victory Points each player receives dur-
ing the Victory Phase.
DR: Dieroll; DRM: Dieroll Modifier
DSTP: Deep Sea Transit Point
Event Marker (Standard Game Only): A marker which, when
drawn, results in a dice-roll on a Random Events Table for the
scenario being played.
Finished: For Land forces, the end of the Major or Minor move.
For Fleets, the point at which the fleet stops moving either vol-
untarily or involuntarily.
Fleet: Any number of naval units in one space. A fleet can con-
sist of Galley Squadrons on their own. It can also consist of land
units undergoing Naval Transport, whether or not Galley Squad-
rons are traveling with them.
Force: Any land unit or stack of land units. See also Army and
Unit.
Friendly Spaces and Ports: All spaces in a player’s Home Prov-
ince are friendly to that player unless occupied by Enemy, Inde-
pendent, Barbarian, or Soldier of Fortune units. Outside a Home
Province, only spaces actually occupied by a player’s land units
(including Garrisons) are friendly, even if the player controls
that Province. This restriction applies to Ports as well as Land
Spaces.
GOP: Geographic Objective points, used to help determine Vic-
tory Points.
“Hold in Hand” Card (Advanced Game Only): Event card
that players may keep until they wish to play or discard it. See
also “Play When Drawn” Card.
Home Territories: Rome, Greece, The East, Carthage
Land Unit: Legion, Heavy Infantry, Light Infantry, Cavalry,
Militia, Mercenary, Barbarian, Slave, and Tribal units. Garri-
sons, Leaders, and Elephants are not considered land units.
LOC: Line of Communication
Major Move: Conducting movement and combat (etc.) with an
Army or Fleet, typically with a Leader. Players get one Major
Move per Activation.
Minor Move: Conducting movement and combat (etc.) with
individual units only. Players get two Minor Moves per Activa-
tion. Towns and Cities are constructed in place of Minor Moves.
MP: Movement Points
NTP: Naval Transit Point
Occupy: Land Units, Garrisons, Towns, and Cities occupy (and
control) the spaces they’re in. On their own, Elephants, Leaders,
and Galley Squadrons do not.
OOP: Opportunity Objective Points, gained from achieving the
special opportunity objectives, and used to add to VP.
“Play When Drawn” Card (Advanced Game Only): Event
card that must be played immediately when drawn from the Event
Deck.
SoF Player: The player who has played the Soldier of Fortune
card this turn.
T: Talents, the game’s term for money; in this period a measure
of silver.
TP: Transit Point
Unit: One of something—Legion, Heavy Infantry, Light Infan-
try, Barbarian Infantry, Cavalry, Galley Squadron, etc. The num-
ber on the top right of each playing piece shows the number of
units that counter represents. Note that only one unit may be
moved each Minor Move—if the counter represents 2 units, you
must break it down into two 1-unit counters and then move only
one of them for that Minor Move.
VP: Victory Points
(1.5) QUESTIONS
Send a self addressed stamped envelope to:
GMT Games
ATTN: Pax Romana
PO Box 1308
Hanford CA 93232
www.GMTgames.com
You can also reach us at www.Consimworld.com in the various
gaming sections.
(2.0) COMPONENTS
Each game contains:
• 1 34" x 22" map
• 4 Sheets of counters
• 55 Events Cards (used only in the Advanced Game)
• 1 Rules Book
• 1 Play Book
• 2 Player Aid Cards
(2.1) THE MAP
The map shows the Mediterranean (and areas tangential to our
story) as it was in the days of the Roman Republic, with some
minor adjustments made for play purposes. The map is com-
prised of the following major elements: Territories, Provinces,
Spaces, and Transit Points. Each of these elements is described
in more detail in this section.
Geographic Appellation Note: Most of the spaces on the map
have been given their Roman/Latin names. While this is not
historically “accurate” for the period in which the game starts,
it does make recognition easier and lends a sense of homogene-
ity.

(2.11) Territories. These are the large colored areas on the map.
For example, the yellow area marked Hispania is a territory.
Territories are separated from each other by a solid red line. Ter-
ritories come in three types: Major Power Home Territories, In-
dependent Territories and Barbarian Territories. Nearly all Ter-
ritories are further divided into Provinces (covered below).
Major Power Home Territories. There are four of these on the
map. The Major Powers Income and Manpower Table shows
exactly what Provinces comprise what Territories. Thus, the
Roman Player’s Home Territory, in red, is comprised of the prov-
inces of Cisalpina, Italia, and Bruttium, while the Greek Player’s
Home Territory, in green, includes four mainland provinces
(Attica, Thrace, Macedonia, Peloponnesus) and a fifth province,
called The Aegean Islands, made up of the spaces labeled Thasos,
Limnos, and Naxos.
Independent Territories. There are nine of these: Hispania,
Gaul, The Sicilies, Germania, Danube, Asia Minor, Crete*, The
Chersonese*, Rhodes*, and a grouping known as Barbarians (see
more below). Each of these, except for The Chersonese, Rhodes,
and Crete, is further divided into Provinces. The Minor Territo-
ries Income and Manpower Table shows exactly what Provinces
comprise what Territories. For example, as shown on that table,
Gaul is divided into five provinces (despite what Caesar says):
Britannia, Belgica, Aquitania, Lugdunensis (named, by the way,
for Lug, a major god of the Celtic/Druidic pantheon), and
Narbonensis.
*If the Territory in question is not subdivided into provinces,
controlling it garners only 1T of income and 1 GOP; you do not
get income and GOP for controlling both the Province and the
Territory.
Barbarian Territories. There are five of these, all in gray:
Caledonia, Greater German Tribes, Sarmatia, Scythia, and Ar-
menia. Barbarian Territories are not subdivided. Each Barbarian
Territory is treated as if it were a province. Control of a Barbar-
ian territory garners only 1T of income and 1 GOP; you do not
get income and GOP for controlling both the Province and the
Territory.
(2.12) Provinces. Provinces are the areas within a Territory. For
example, Lusitania is a Province within the Territory of Hispania.
Provinces that belong to the same Territory are colored the same
as one another and are separated from each other by a broken
red line. All Provinces contain one or more Spaces, and many
contain one or more Transit Points.
Additional Notes on Provinces:
• Rhodes, as noted in 12.51, is a separate, Independent Power.
• Crete and The Chersonese are independent provinces attached
to no Territory. Control of these provinces has no effect on
control of any Territory.
• Corinth (beside Athens) belongs to the Peloponnes province,
not to Attica province.
(2.13) Spaces and Transit Points. Units move from circle to
circle on the map. These circles are called Spaces or Transit
Points, depending on their size. The large circles are Spaces, the
small Circles are Transit Points. Following is a breakdown of
the various types of Spaces and Transit Points:
Land Spaces: Large circles with solid colors and black outlines.
Only land units may use these Spaces. EXAMPLE: Arretium (in
Italia province, Rome territory). Special Rules: none.
Land Transit Points: Small black circles. Only land units may
use these Points. EXAMPLE: Between Salonae and Lissa (in
Dalmatia province, The Danube territory). Special Rules: 10.96,
10.97.
Capital Spaces: Large circles with black outlines and a build-
ing symbol inside. EXAMPLES: Pella and Athens (in Greece
territory). Special Rules: 5.22, 8.15, 13.44, 14.21.
Mountain Fortress Spaces: Large circles with black outlines
and a mountain symbol inside. Only land units may use these
Spaces. Examples: Mazaca and Sebastia (in Cappadocia prov-
ince, Asia Minor territory). Special Rules: 7.14, 9.21, 9.45, 10.43,
10.51, 10.62, 10.68, 12.13.
Alpine Pass Spaces: Mid-sized circles with brown outlines and
a mountain symbol inside. Unlike Mountain Fortresses, these
Spaces are not named. Only land units may use these Spaces.
EXAMPLE: Between Valentia and Taurinorum (in Cisalpina
province, Rome territory). Special Rules: See 9.32.
Mine Spaces: Large spaces with black outlines and a shovel
and pickaxe symbol inside. Only land units may use these Spaces.
EXAMPLE: Bergidum (in Gallaecia province, Hispania terri-
tory). Special Rules: See 6.11.
Port Spaces: Large circles with black outlines, colored partly in
blue and partly to show the color of the Province in which they
are located. These are located on coasts and islands. Both land
units and naval units may use these Spaces. EXAMPLES:
Lilybaeum (in West Sicily province, The Sicilies territory), Melita
(in Melita province, The Sicilies territory). Special Rules: See
5.14, 6.3, 9.44, 10.43, 11.0, 12.6.
Naval Transit Points: Small blue circles. Only naval units may
use these Points. EXAMPLE: Between Lissa and Barium (in Italia
province, Rome territory). Special Rules: See 11.0, 12.6.
Deep Sea Transit Points: Mid-sized blue circles with wave sym-
bol inside. Only naval units may use these Transit Points. EX-
AMPLE: Between Alexandria (in Egypt province, The East ter-
ritory) and Rhodes (in Rhodes province, Asia Minor territory).
Special Rules: See 11.0, 12.6.
Tribal Spaces: Large circles with black outlines and a green
Viking helmet symbol inside. Use depends on location. EX-
AMPLE: Londinium (in Britannia province, Gaul territory).
Special Rules: See 13.1.
(2.14) Connections. To move around the map, units follow the
lines that join Spaces and/or Transit Points. These lines are called
Connections, and are distinguished as follows:

• Land connections: black lines; movement only by Land units.
EXAMPLE: the connections between Memphis and
Hermopolis (in Egypt province, The East territory).
• Naval connections: blue lines, movement only by Galley
Squadrons and Fleets (including Naval Transport fleets). EX-
AMPLE: the connection between Pisae (in Italia province,
Rome territory) and Aleria (in Corsica province, The Sicilies
territory).
PLAY NOTE: Some Spaces are connected by both Land and
Naval connections, indicating that both land and naval units
may move between the two. EXAMPLE: the entire SE coast of
Hispania, from Malacca to Emporiae.
• The Corinthian Isthmus: Yes, you can use Naval Movement
between Megara and Corinth (in Greece territory), seemingly
over land. The Greeks had built a sort of canal to make transit
between the two possible.
• Straits: Connections across water that allow Land Movement
(not Naval Transport) between the Land Spaces indicated with
a blue double arrow. EXAMPLE: the connection between Byz-
antium and Nicomedia (joining Greece territory with Asia Mi-
nor territory). Special Rules: See 9.33.
PLAY NOTE: Some Straits are connected by both Land and Na-
val connections, indicating that you may use both land and naval
movement between the two. EXAMPLE: the connection between
Rhegium and Messana (joining Bruttium province in Rome terri-
tory with East Sicily province in The Sicilies territory).
(2.15) Tracks: The map contains several tracks that help play-
ers remember important information as the game goes on. The
counter sheets contain markers for these tracks.
(2.2) UNIT COUNTERS
The counters represent the following units (abbreviations in
bold):
• Legions (Rome only): LG
• Heavy Infantry: HI
• Light Infantry: LI
• Barbarian Infantry: BI
• Tribal Infantry: TI
• Cavalry: Cav
• Elephants: EL
• Mercenary units of various types: M-HI, M-LI, M-Cav
• Militia infantry: Mil
• Galley Squadrons: GS
• Garrisons: Garr
There are also ten (10) Leaders for each Power, plus military
units for various Independent Armies (such as Pontus, Pergamum,
et al). There are also informational markers, use of which is de-
scribed below, and Army and Fleet markers for making moving
large stacks easy.
The term “unit” refers to one (1) unit of that type. The actual
counter on the map can represent anywhere from 1-10 units, and
you can break these down into “change” however you wish. Most
unit types make up a specific number of Battle Points (BP) in
combat. For example, a 1 HI unit is worth 3 Battle Points.
(2.3) THE OBJECTIVE OPPORTUNITY
MARKERS
The Objective Opportunity Markers are used only in
certain scenarios, as per 15.4, to give the players
Goals that would not normally be apparent to the other
players, providing them with Victory points if
achieved.
(2.4) THE EVENT CARDS (Advanced Game
The 55 Event cards are used to represent, and put into play, out-
side events, political realities, natural happenings, etc. In gen-
eral, they help make life interesting. See 17.0.
PLAY NOTE: Familiarity with what the cards do helps speed
up play. However, you do not have to
read all the rules for each card. How
they work is explained on the card and
on the Card Play Aid Sheet.
Cavalry
War Galley
Light Inf
Tribe
Barbarian
Carthage
East
Rome
Greece
Control Markers
Number (1)
Type (HI)
BP value
Power
Elephant
Merc HI
Heavy Inf
Militia
Garrison
Fleet
Civilization
Points
Cilician
Pirates
Pirates
VPs
Army
Other Markers

(2.5) TALENTS
The Talent is the game’s form of currency, represented by coins
in denominations of ‘1’, ‘5’ and ‘10’. Historically, a talent was
an era measure of silver. Talents bear the symbol T in this game—
for example, 2T is two talents. You can either use the Talents
markers or keep track of Talents on the General Records Track
using the “Talents X1” and “Talents X10” markers.
(2.6) CHARTS AND TABLES
Many of the rules and all of the die-roll results tables are sum-
marized on the Charts and Tables cardstock sheets. Keep these
in easy reach of all players as you play.
(2.7) THE DICE
Pax uses six-sided dice in one of three ways, depending on the
mechanic:
• 1d6. Roll one die, apply number.
• 2d6. Roll two dice, add them together.
• 3d6. Roll three dice, add them together.
(3.0) GENERAL COURSE OF PLAY
First, choose a scenario to play (the Scenarios are in the Play
Book). Pax Romana has several scenarios, with some suitable
for two players and some for up to four players. The full sce-
narios are designed for four.
(3.1) INITIAL DEPLOYMENT
All individual Power set-up instructions are given both in the
scenario instructions, as well as on the Player Aid Cards.
(3.2) SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each Game-Turn follows the following Sequence.
A. Income Phase (Ignore for First Game-Turn). Each Player
collects Income from controlled Provinces, Territories, Towns,
and Cities (6.1).
B. Maintenance Phase. (Ignore for First Game-Turn.) Each
Player pays Maintenance for all Fleets plus Armies over the al-
lowed maximums (6.4). In addition, each Player loses Stability
Points if the number of HI or LG (whether full-strength or re-
duced) he has on the map exceeds his current Civilization Point
total (14.2).
C. Removal Phase. (Ignore for First Game-Turn.) Remove lead-
ers (8.1), militia units (12.32), mercenary infantry (12.27), the
Soldier of Fortune leader and forces (12.4), and Barbarian lead-
ers and forces (but not face-up tribal counters or independent
forces, and not BI created by some Rebellions (13.3). Convert
Mercenary cavalry to Regulars (12.27).
D. Leader Selection Phase. (Ignore for First Game-Turn.) Si-
multaneously, each player randomly draws their Leaders for that
Game-Turn, from his Pool, as per 8.2, places the first Leader
drawn in his Capital and the other in any Space on the map con-
taining at least one of his combat units.
E. Manpower Phase. (Ignore for First Game-Turn.) Players may
do any or all of the following: raise Land Units, create Garri-
sons, and build galley squadrons (6.2-6.3) and purchase Oppor-
tunity Objective markers (15.43) when allowed to do so. Also,
reduced HI or LG units must either be rebuilt to full strength or
they are automatically removed and replaced by a Garrison unit
(10.86). All players plan their Manpower activities secretly on a
piece of paper, revealing them simultaneously after all players
are ready. For competitive games, set a time limit of five min-
utes to make these plans.
F. Activation Phase. The player who played the most recent
Activation draws an Activation Marker from the Activation pool
(except for the first set of Activation Markers – see 3.3). Play
proceeds according to the following sequence.
0. Events Segment (Standard Game Only). If an Events
Marker has been drawn, the player who drew that marker rolls
to see which Event has occurred; see 16.1. After completing
the Event, return to Phase F if Activation Markers remain in
the pool; otherwise, go to Phase G.
1. Payment Segment: The player pays 1T for using that AM.
If he cannot pay, see 3.44.
2. Card Segment (Advanced Game Only): The Player Draws
a card from the top of the Event Deck. If he wants to, or must,
play the card, all of its immediate effects are put into play
before proceeding. He may play other cards from his hand at
this point (17.1).
3. Operations Segment: The player may undertake one (1)
of the following Operations:
a. Expansion (Major Moves and Minor Moves):
• Military: Move and/or attack as per 10.2-10.9.
• Construction: Build Towns and/or Cities, as per 7.1, in place
of a Minor Move.
b.Recruitment: Raise Land Units OR build galley squadrons
using the same mechanics as in the Manpower Phase (E);
c. Call a Meeting (Standard Game Only): See 4.1. A player
Calling a Meeting does not pay the 1T in F/1 for using the
AM. As a result, the Meeting Operation is an operation that
Players with an empty Treasury (0T) can perform.
4. New Activation Marker Segment: If Activation Mark-
ers remain in the Activation pool, return to the start of Phase
F in order to draw another AM. If there are no AMs left, go
to Phase G.
PLAY NOTE: There is no “Call a Meeting” operation in the
Advanced Game. Instead, players can engage in Alliances (see
4.2).
G. Attrition and Isolation Phase.
1. Land Forces: Apply attrition (9.43) to any Land forces that
are Isolated (9.41).
2. Fleets: Apply attrition to any Fleets not In Port (9.44).

H. Victory Phase.
1. Tabulate Victory Points (15.0) and note any change to Sta-
bility Level (14.0).
2. Determine if anyone has won an Automatic Victory (see
Scenario rules).
3. Return all cards to the Event Deck—except those which
say “Use Once and Remove” and the card(s) retained In Hand
(17.1)—and shuffle the Deck anew. Place the reshuffled deck
on the table available for use in the next Game-Turn.
I. Play Order Determination Phase. Players determine the or-
der of the first round of Activations for the next game-turn and
place the first set of Activation Markers on the board in that
order. The remainder of the AMs go into The Pool.
(3.3) PLAY ORDER
In the Play Order Determination Phase, the first round of Acti-
vation Markers is determined. For the first Game-Turn, the sce-
nario rules state the initial order of AMs. In every Game-Turn
after that, see 3.42.
(3.4) ACTIVATIONS AND ACTIVATION
MARKERS
(3.41) During each Game-Turn, who gets
to “go”—undertake an Activation Phase
(Phase F)—is determined primarily (but see
3.42) by drawing Activation Markers (AMs), blindly and ran-
domly, from a “pool” (called the Activation Pool) represented
by an opaque cup or some other such receptacle. Whoever’s AM
is drawn becomes the Active Player.
(3.42) The Activation Markers in play are determined as follows:
• At the start of each Game-Turn, each player plays one Activa-
tion before the Activation Pool comes into play. The order of
play is determined by the current Victory Point level (or by
the scenario instructions for Game-Turn 1). The player with
the fewest VP goes first, the player with the second fewest
goes second, and so on. In the case of VP ties, Stability Level
determines the order for the players who are tied (lower Sta-
bility goes first). If still tied, Civilization Point level deter-
mines (lower CVP total goes first). If still tied, roll a die, with
lower number going first. Place the AM markers in their re-
spective spaces in the Activation Markers area of the map.
• After all players have played once, the remaining Activation
Markers for each power go into the Pool. For the Advanced
Game, each player gets three AMs; in the Standard Game, the
number depends on the game length the players have decided
upon (see 3.8). Events or Cards might also dictate the number
of AMs.
• From this point on, the player who has just finished an Acti-
vation draws an AM from the Pool, blindly and randomly.
The name on the AM is the power who goes next. However,
no player may play more than two Activations in a row. If a
third consecutive AM for that player appears, draw again un-
til the action shifts to a different player. This rule is waived if
(as might very rarely occur) the final three AMs in the AM
Pool belong to the same player.
EXAMPLE: In Scenario II, Rome and Carthage each get 4 AMs.
The Play Order (as specified in the Scenario rules in the
Playbook, is Rome and then Carthage. At the beginning of the
game, place a Rome AM marker in the AM #1 box of the Play
Order section of the Activation Markers area of the map (top
right). Place a Carthage AM marker in the AM #2 box. Place
the remaining AM markers – 3 for each player – into whatever
you’re using as the AM Pool (a coffee cup or bowl, face-down
on the table, whichever way you choose.)
Optional Rule. In playtesting, some players preferred a system
in which the player with the fewest VP got the first AM of the
Game-Turn, but after that all were drawn randomly. Feel free to
use either system; however, be prepared to have—at times—a
longer duration between your moves, especially while two other
players seem to be getting all the Activations. Be prepared, also,
to experience periods when events seem completely out of your
control. If playing with this optional rule, the first AM of the
game goes to the player listed first under the heading “Initial
Play Order”.
(3.43) A Game-Turn is over after the last drawn AM has been
played.
(3.44) When his AM is drawn, that player must pay 1T to use it
(Phase G/1). If he cannot, or chooses not to do so, he cannot use
the AM. The AM is considered used, however.
PLAY NOTE: Yes, this is correct. No money, no activation. Not
even if the treasury is empty because of the play of Event cards.
It is critical (to say the least) that Players begin each Opera-
tions Phase with a Treasury of at least 4 Talents, in order to pay
for their 4 Activation Markers, but it is highly, highly recom-
mended to keep more Talents available to guard against un-
pleasant Events.
Exception (Standard Game Only): In the Standard Game only,
a player may “Call a Meeting” (F/3/c), which costs no Talents.
PLAY NOTE: The Pontus AM (12.55) is always free and does
not count against a player’s limit of 4 AM per Game-Turn.
(3.45) Summary of Possible Actions.
During his own Activation, an Active Player’s possible actions
can include (within restrictions):
• Moving a stack of units
• Moving individual units
• Fighting land and naval battles
• Gaining control of provinces and territories
• Constructing and rebuilding Cities and Towns
• Recruiting land or naval units
• Calling a Meeting (Standard Game Only)
• Playing Event cards for a variety of reasons (Advanced Game
• Intercepting Withdrawing or Retreating enemy units

During an opponent’s Activation, the non-Active Player’s pos-
sible actions can include (within restrictions):
• Withdrawing before battle
• Intercepting enemy units
• Choosing whether or not to include Cities or Towns in a battle
defense
• Gaining control of provinces and territories
• Playing Event cards for a variety of reasons (Advanced Game
(3.5) OPERATIONS IN GENERAL
(3.51) Whenever a player’s AM is drawn or selected he may
undertake one of the following Operations:
• Recruitment: Raise Land Units or build Gally Squadrons.
• Expansion: Perform one Major Move and up to two Minor
Moves.
Major Moves allow players to move and/or attack with an Army
or Fleet. Minor Moves allow players to move and/or attack with
individual units as well as undertake Construction in order to
build Towns and Cities as per 7.1. The Major and Minor moves
may be conducted in any order the player wishes.
(3.52) All land units stacked in the same Space are considered
an Army. All Galley Squadrons in the same Space are a Fleet, as
are all Units (Land Units with or without Galley Squadrons)
conducting Naval Transport. Army and Fleet markers are pro-
vided so that players can remove stacks of units from the map,
identifying them with such markers, which correspond to the
Army/Fleet boxes on the map.
(3.53) Stacking. There is no limit to the number of units of any
kind that may exist in any one Space.
(3.6) FIRST TURN RESTRICTIONS
For the first Game-Turn, only, Phases A through E are ignored.
(3.7) HOW TO WIN
Players gain Victory Points for Geographic Objectives and Civi-
lization Points on a set scale. Players may attain extra VP from
Opportunity Objective Points. See 15.0 for details on all VP
sources.
The individual scenarios give specific instructions for How to
Win.
(3.8) LENGTH OF PLAY
Pax Romana presents the players with a great many decisions,
and decision-making takes time. We know some of you prefer a
game that can be finished in one sitting, while others prefer a
lengthier game with nearly unlimited variation. To that end, we
present several formats, each with its own level of detail, so that
you can play Pax Romana as you wish. The formats for the Stan-
dard Game are covered in 3.81; for the Advanced Game, 3.82.
(3.81) Standard Game Options
Basic Game: This game should take an evening to play, about 5
hours or so.
• Players get only 3 AMs per Game-Turn
• No Special Event AMs
• No Operational Objectives
Basic II Game:
• Players get only 3 AMs per Game-Turn
• Only one Special Event AM
• Only one Operational Objective per Player, selected randomly.
Basic Plus Game:
• Players get 4 AMs per Game-Turn
• Two Special Event AMs
• Only one Operational Objective per Player, selected randomly.
Ultra Basic Game:
• Full 10 Game-Turns
• Players get 4 AMs per Game-Turn
• Two Special Event AMs
• All Operational Objectives in use, selected as per 15.4.
Players should feel free to juggle the number of Game-Turns,
AMs, and use of Objective markers as they feel will work best
for them.
(3.82) Advanced Game Options
In the Advanced Game scenarios, each player gets four Activa-
tion Markers per turn.
The length of the Advanced Game is up to the players, as they
get to choose how many turns to play. For players familiar with
the game, we have found that each full turn takes an hour, de-
pending on the playing styles of those involved.
We recommend a minimum of 5 Game-Turns, which will take
about 6-7 hours with inexperienced players. The full 10-turn
version gives a lot more depth, but does take more time. You can
choose any number of Game-Turns you wish.
(4.0) PLAYER INTERACTION
PLAY NOTE: Alliances are not going to be easy to enforce in
casual play, but the idea of this is that such agreements were
not easily reached, given the distances and travel.
(4.1) ALLIANCES (Standard Game Only)
Agreements between players are forbidden, unless such agree-
ments are done at a Meeting. The convening Player may “in-
vite” any other players to attend, and only those players may be
party to any agreements reached thereat.
Players may agree to do anything not specifically prohibited by
the rules. E.g., Player A may allow Player B’s army to combine
with his; they may agree to a mutual defense pact; they may
pass Talents around, they cede Control, etc. They have 5 min-
utes to decide what, if anything, they will do. Good time for a
Bio Break for the non-involved.

(4.2) ALLIANCES (Advanced Game Only)
Agreements between players are forbidden, unless such agree-
ments are done through play of an Alliance Card. Exception: see
Bribery, 4.3.
A player who plays an Alliance card may open Political Talks
with any one other player…and only one. The two may agree to
do anything not specifically prohibited by the rules, but only for
the rest of the Game-Turn. E.g., Player A may allow Player B’s
army to combine with his; they may agree to a mutual defense
pact; they may trade cards; they may pass Talents around, they
cede Control, etc. They have 5 minutes to decide what, if any-
thing, they will do.
(4.3) BRIBERY
Players may use Talents to influence any move made by an op-
posing Player against the Player wishing to change/influence
the move. This must be done at the instant such action would
take place, the deal must involve a payment of Talents in return
for doing or not doing a specific action, and whether or not the
player lives up to that deal is up to him.
(4.4) TALKING THE TALK (Optional Rule)
If you prefer, and if all players agree, dispense with the restric-
tions on when player interaction may occur and make alliances,
conduct negotiations, and stab each other in the back whenever
you wish. Given the scale of the game (each turn is 25 years),
diplomats and other persuaders would have been active at all
times, so a wide-open approach can certainly be justified.
PART B: GETTING AND
SPENDING
5.0 CONTROL
5.1 Controlling Spaces
5.2 Controlling Provinces
5.3 Controlling Territories, Towns, And Cities
5.4 Effects Of Enemy And Non-Player Forces On Control
6.0 GETTING AND SPENDING
6.1 Collecting Income (Talents)
6.2 Raising Land Units
6.3 Building Galley Squadrons
6.4 Maintaining Land Units And Fleets
7.0 CITIES AND TOWNS
7.1 Building And Rebuilding Cities And Towns
7.2 Control By Cities And Towns
7.3 Using Cities And Towns In Battle
7.4 Capturing, Destroying, And Rebuilding
7.5 Sack And Plunder
(5.0) CONTROL
A game of Pax Romana consists to a very large degree of at-
tempting to gain control over (and maintaining control of) three
types of locations: Territories, Provinces, and Land Spaces. Most
Territories consist of two or more Provinces; most Provinces
consist of two or more Land Spaces. Control is determined ac-
cording to the following rules.
(5.1) CONTROLLING SPACES
(5.11) Control and Occupation of Land Spaces. Players con-
trol Land Spaces in which they have a Town or City, a Garri-
son, or Land Units of any type (see Glossary). Such spaces are
considered occupied by that player. A Player automatically
controls all unoccupied Spaces in his Home Territory. Unoc-
cupied non-Home Spaces are controlled by no one, even if a
player controls the Province in which the unoccupied spaces
are located. On their own, Elephants, Leaders, and Galley
Squadrons do not provide control.
(5.12) Joint Occupation of Spaces. Only in the case of Alli-
ances (see 4.1 and 4.2), or when fleets and land forces of op-
posing sides are in the same space, may the forces belonging
to two players (or one player and a non-player’s force) jointly
occupy a space. After battle, either the defending force will
retreat from the Battle Space or, if it does not, the attacking
force must “regroup” back to the space from which it entered
that space (see 10.97).
(5.13) Control of Naval Spaces. Naval Spaces are never con-
trolled, although they can be occupied by a fleet.
(5.14) Control of Ports. Control of ports works exactly like
control of all other Land Spaces, using the rules for occupied
spaces as per 5.11. That is, a player automatically controls all
ports in his Home Territory that are not occupied by an enemy,
while outside of his Home Territory, a player controls only those
ports he occupies. This last point is true even if he controls the
Province in which the port in question is located.
PLAY NOTE: This rule means that a fleet entering an unoccu-
pied non-Home port space must Stop and roll for Continuity
(11.13), even if the fleet owner controls that province.
(5.2) CONTROLLING PROVINCES
(5.21) Controlling Non-Home Territory Provinces. A player
controls provinces in a Territory other than any player’s Home
Territory when either of the following is in effect:
a. He occupies more than half the Land Spaces in that province; or
b. No other forces but his (including barbarians, tribes, and any-
thing else) control any Land Spaces in that province.
(5.22) Controlling One’s Own Home Territory Provinces. A
player controls a Province in his own Home Territory according
to the following:
a. In his own Home Provinces that contain a Capital space (Italia
for Rome, Africa for Carthage, Attica and Macedonia for
Greece, Syria and Egypt for The East—although only Syria
in Scenario #6), the Player controls that Province as long as
he controls (5.11) the Capital space, regardless of what else
is in other Land Spaces of that province. Example: The East
Player occupies Alexandria. Other players occupy Memphis,
Pelusium and the Faiyum. The East still controls Egypt. Note

that he can also control such a province according to 5.22b
(below), should he lose the Capital space.
b. A Player controls one of his own Home Provinces if he con-
trols any Land Space in that province and no other player(s)
control(s) more than half the province's Land Spaces. Ex-
ample: Rome occupies Rhegium, in Bruttium, and Carthage
occupies Tarentum and Croton. As Carthage controls only 2
of the 5 Land Spaces in Bruttium, and Rome has a presence
(in Rhegium), Rome still controls Bruttium.
(5.23) Controlling Another Player’s Home Territory Prov-
inces. A player controls a Province in another player’s Home
Territory according to the following:
a. In such Home Provinces that contain a Capital space (see
5.22a), the Player must control more than half the province’s
Land Spaces, AND prevent the player whose Home Terri-
tory that province is in from occupying the Capital space.
Example: In order to control Italia province, any non-Ro-
man player must control five of the nine land spaces in Italia,
including the Rome space itself.
b. In such Home provinces without a Capital space (see 5.22a),
the Player must control more than half the province’s Land
Spaces. Example: To control Macedonia, any non-Greek
player would need to occupy four of the six provinces.
(5.24) Islands Needed for Provincial Control:
• The islands of Lesbos/Chios and Samos are treated as Spaces
for control of Ionia, in Asia.
• The islands of Thasos, Limnos and Naxos are treated as one
province (with 3 Spaces): The Aegean Islands, part of Greece.
• The Balearic Islands space is part of Hispania. It counts for
GOP calculation (15.2), but it does not provide Income.
• Melita (Malta) is part of the Sicilies. It counts for GOP calcu-
lation (15.2), but it does not provide Income.
(5.3) CONTROLLING TERRITORIES,
TOWNS, AND CITIES.
(5.31) A Player controls a Territory when he controls all the Prov-
inces in that Territory. A Player who controls an entire Territory
that is not his Home Territory receives one (1) GOP, in addition
to the GOP he receives for the provinces therein, and 1T of In-
come over and above income for the Provinces in the Territory.
Note that he receives no GOP for controlling his Home Territory
(but he does receive the extra 1T of Income for it).
(5.32) Controlling Towns and Cities. See 7.2.
(5.4) EFFECTS OF ENEMY AND NON-
PLAYER FORCES ON CONTROL
(5.41) Control can be denied by the presence of Enemy units
(including Mercenaries), Independents, Barbarian Infantry, Sol-
dier of Fortune units, Slave units, and Tribal markers (whether
or not revealed). Forces allied to the Player (in the case of an
alliance with Pergamum, for example) do not deny control, nor
do they control these spaces for you.
(5.42) Galley squadrons have no effect on control; they neither
control a space nor deny control of a space.
(5.43) Controlling Another Player’s Home Territory. A player
power is never out of the game. It can be weakened to non-exist-
ence, with all its Home Provinces under foreign control and no
Land Units on the map, but after that point, if any of its Home
Provinces revert to that power’s control, it is back in. This can
EXAMPLE OF CONTROL: The Carthaginians seek to gain con-
trol of the territory of Gaul, which has five provinces: Britan-
nia, Belgica, Lugdunensis, Aquitania, and Narbonensis. Over
the course of 2-3 activations, they do the following. First, they
attack and eliminate the Tribe in Gergovia (Aquitania). With-
out eliminating the Tribe, they would have had to occupy 4 of
the 6 spaces in order to gain control; by eliminating the Tribe,
they need only occupy one space. They leave behind an LI unit
and march southeast to Narbonensis, where instead of elimi-
nating either of the two Tribes (they avoid all Tribal-controlled
spaces, requiring a combination of naval transport and cross-
ing the Alps to do so), they decide to leave Garrison units in
the 3 unoccupied spaces (thereby taking control by occupying
the majority of that province's 5 spaces. Next they move north
to Lugdensis, where if they don't eliminate the two Tribes they
would have to occupy 5 of the 9 spaces there. They attack and
eliminate the Tribes, leave 1 LI in Lugdunum, and move into
Belgica, where they eliminate the Tribe in Bibrax and leave a
Cavalry unit in place to maintain control. Finally, they naval
transport to Britannia, where they consider occupying 5 of the
8 spaces to gain control, but instead attack and eliminate the
two Tribes. They have now taken control of the entire territory
of Gaul—although it's difficult to imagine the Roman player
just sitting back and watching all of this happen.

happen if the player forms an alliance with another player, who
fights the power controlling the Home Provinces, or if the player
controlling the Home Provinces loses or removes Units such
that he no longer controls them. Furthermore, if a player loses
his Home Territory but still controls other Territories, he is very
much in the game.
(6.0) GETTING AND SPENDING
Players receive Income for controlling Provinces, Territories,
Cities, and Towns. Players collect Income, in the form of Tal-
ents, during the Income Phase. They spend Talents in various
Phases, as outlined below, in order to raise Land Units, build
galley squadrons, build cities, and perform maintenance (among
other things). In addition, players can spend Talents to hire mer-
cenaries, as covered in 12.2.
(6.1) COLLECTING INCOME (TALENTS)
(6.11) In the Income Phase (Phase A), a Player collects Income
(in the form of Talents) as follows:
• 1T for each Province he controls. However, control of Ionia,
Italia or Narbonensis brings 2T; control of Egypt earns 3T. In
addition, control of certain provinces bring no income at all
(6.14). These different ratings are noted on the map.
• 1T for each Territory he controls, in addition to the Talents
from the provinces therein.
• 1T for each full-strength Town he controls.
• 0T for each reduced-strength Town he controls.
• 3T for each full-strength City he controls.
• 1T for each reduced-strength City he controls.
• 1T for controlling the silver mines at Bergidum (Hispania),
regardless who controls the rest of the province (and in addi-
tion to that province if the same player controls it).
(6.12) The setup rules for each scenario list the Territories, Prov-
inces, Cities, and Towns initially under each player’s control.
PLAY NOTE: Players keep track of their Talents with the Talent
markers provided, or by adjusting the Talents Track on the map.
(6.13) Players must control a province or territory in order to re-
ceive Income from them. See 5.0 for the mechanics of Control.
(6.14) Three provinces that count for Control do not provide
any income. These are the Balearic islands (Hispania), Melita
(The Sicilies), and Germania Magna (Germania).
(6.15) Line of Communications. For a player to receive the
Income from a Province that is not part of his Home Territory,
and from any Cities or Towns (or the Bergidum Mines) not in
his Home Territory, he must be able to trace a Line of Commu-
nications (LOC) from the source of Income (6.11) to any friendly
Land or Port Space in his Home Territory at the time he seeks to
Collect Income. If he cannot, he does not collect the relevant
Talents. A LOC can be of any length, and it is traced as if the
Talents were actually moving; such “movement” may be land,
sea or both, but see 6.16 for restrictions.
(6.16) LOC may not be traced through
• an enemy occupied Space
• a Barbarian Infantry or Tribal marker occupied Space
• an Independent occupied Space. Exception: it may be traced
through Rhodes by paying 1T to do so (i.e., 1T for each space
tracing LOC through Rhodes) as per 12.51.
• a Port space occupied by an enemy Galley Squadron (if LOC
traced by sea).
• a Pirate occupied Space (if LOC traced by sea).
• a Deep-Sea Transit Point (if LOC traced by sea).
(6.17) Within the parameters of the above, Land LOC may be
traced by land into a Space occupied by both an enemy galley
squadron and a friendly Land unit, but it may not be traced via
sea in such a case.
(6.18) LOC may be traced through unoccupied Spaces in both
controlled and uncontrolled provinces.
(6.2) RAISING LAND UNITS
(6.21) A Player may spend Talents to raise new Units during the
Manpower Phase, as a Recruitment Operation in his Operations
Phase, or both. Players who choose a Recruitment Operation
when activated may do nothing else during that Operations Phase.
(6.22) During the Manpower Phase, raising land units is done
secretly, with each player writing their builds on a piece of pa-
per and all players revealing their choices simultaneously.
(6.23) Units raised in Home Provinces are placed in any con-
trolled or unoccupied Space in that province.
(6.24) A Player may raise units in a province only if he controls
that province, and that province must not be isolated (9.4). He
may raise only the types of units permitted for that Territory, at
the listed cost. He may initially deploy them in any controlled or
unoccupied Space in the province in which they were raised.
(6.25) A Player raises Units by referring to the Major Powers
Income and Manpower Table and the Minor Territories Income
and Manpower Table. He determines the Province in which he
wishes to raise Units and locates that Province on the appropri-
ate table. All Provinces in a specific Territory (with the few ex-
ceptions noted on the Tables) have the same Unit types avail-
able, and as long as the Player controls any of the Provinces in
that Territory, he may raise any number of those Unit type(s)
available (but see 6.42 and 6.43). He pays the cost shown in
parenthesis for each unit of the troop type he wishes to raise,
deducting the amount from his Treasury immediately.
(6.26) As the tables show, some Powers cannot raise certain types
of units. For example, Rome may not raise Cavalry or Light
Infantry from its Home provinces; Greece may raise only Heavy
Infantry from its Home provinces.
NOTE: The Major Powers Income and Manpower Table shows
incorrectly that Greek HI units cost 1T each; they cost 2T each,
as specified in 6.27 and on the Unit Chart.

(6.27) Unit Costs. Here is a summary of the cost to purchase
the major units in the game. Note all units of each type costs the
same no matter where they are raised:
Legions (LG) – 2T
Heavy Infantry (HI) – 2T
Light Infantry (LI) – 1T
Cavalry (CV) – 2T
Elephant (EL) – 1T
Galley Squadrons (GS) – 2T
Garrisons (Garr) – 0T
EXAMPLE #1: At the start of his Manpower Phase (or upon
announcing a Recruitment Operation), the Greek player con-
trols the Province of Ionia in Asia Minor. He locates Asia Mi-
nor in the Territories column of the Minor Territories Income
and Manpower Table; Ionia is listed as one of the Provinces.
Looking to the column on the right, he notes that he can raise
Heavy Infantry and/or Light Infantry in any Province in Asia
Minor, at a cost of 2T per HI unit and 1T per LI unit. He chooses
to raise two HI and three LI, at a total cost of 7T, which he
immediately deducts from his Treasury. Note that any other
Player who controls a Province in Asia Minor may also raise
HI and/or LI during his own Manpower Phase or during a Re-
cruitment Operation.
EXAMPLE #2: Rome has gained control of Syria, and decided
to spend a Recruitment Operation raising Land Units there. He
locates Syria on the Major Powers Income and Manpower Table,
where it is listed as a Province in the Territory known as The
East. The column on the right reveals that he may raise any or
all of the following: Heavy Infantry units at 2T each, Light In-
fantry units at 1T each, and Cavalry units at 2T each. He also
notes the [Eleph] notation beside Syria in the Provinces col-
umn. This notation means that he can raise Elephant units at
1T each, because he controls that Province. He could not re-
cruit Elephants from Judea.
EXAMPLE #3: Carthage has taken control of the province of
Britannia. He decides to raise 2 Cavalry there, at a cost of 4T.
However, in the final Activation of the previous Game-Turn,
Rome occupied Gesoriacum (in Belgica) and Darioritum (in
Lugdensis) with land units and galley squadrons. As a result,
Britannia has no LOC with Carthage Territory, and Carthage
may not raise the units.
(6.28) Aegean Restrictions. No HI units may be raised in any
of the 5 Aegean Islands: Thasos, Limnos, Lesbos-Chios, Samos
or Naxos.
(6.29) The number of counters provided in the game is not a
limit to building. If you run out of a particular type of counter
(even Cities or Towns), feel free to use a counter from another
game, or to mix counters from two Pax Romana games, etc.
(6.3) BUILDING GALLEY SQUADRONS
A Player may build Squadrons of War Galleys during his Man-
power Phase or as part of a Recruitment Operation in his Opera-
tions Phase.
• It costs 2T to build a Galley Squadron.
• Squadrons are built in any Port controlled by that Player (but
see the next bullet point). If placed in the Manpower Phase,
the Port must have been in the player’s control (which means
actually occupied if not in his Home Territory) at the begin-
ning of the Manpower Phase.
• Squadrons may not be built in a port space already containing
one or more non-friendly Squadrons.
• There is no restriction on the number of Galley Squadrons a
player may have. However, keeping galleys from turn to turn
requires the payment of maintenance (6.41).
(6.4) MAINTAINING LAND UNITS AND
FLEETS
Like the Manpower Phase, the Maintenance Phase is conducted
secretly, with each player writing down which galley squadrons
he will maintain (and, if necessary, which land units he will
maintain) and all players revealing their choices simultaneously.
(6.41) Fleet Maintenance. In the Maintenance Phase players
must either pay 1T Maintenance for each Galley Squadron or
remove the unit(s). The owning player chooses which Galley
Squadron(s) to maintain and which to lose (see also 9.44). The
decision about how many to maintain is done secretly and re-
vealed simultaneously; you can use the “Galleys Maintained”
markers for this purpose, or record it on paper. Fleets belonging
to minor powers which begin the game as neutrals never need to
be maintained.
(6.42) Manpower Maximums (ManMax). Each Player has a
maximum number of Legion/Heavy Infantry units he may field,
above which he must either pay Maintenance, at a rate of 1T per
unit, or remove the un-maintained infantry. The ManMax levels
depend on the Stability Level of the Power (14.0). See the
ManMax table on the Charts and Tables card. And see 6.43.
PLAY NOTE: There are no such limits on LI and Cavalry, and
the ManMax limit is not affected by Militia. It may be affected
by Mercenaries, but only in the case of Mercenary HI units.
EXAMPLE: The East, with a Stable government, has 25 HI on
the map. As per the Manpower Maximums Table, the East is
allowed to field only 18 HI for “free” while Stable. The East
player must pay 7T in Maintenance to keep all those units in
play. He could pay 4T and remove 3 HI units, however, or any
other such combination totaling 7.
HISTORICAL NOTE: By the Civil War that ended the Repub-
lic, Rome was fielding 60 legions, much beyond its capacity to
easily do so. At the end of the war, Emperor Augustus reduced
the lists to 28 legions. Even so, it was far more manpower than
anyone else could call on.
(6.43) Carthaginian Limitations. Unlike other powers,
Carthage may not build above its ManMax limit at any time.
HISTORICAL NOTE: If anything, the manpower capability of
Carthage is overestimated. Carthage relied almost entirely on
her allies—Spanish, Numidian and Libyan tribes provided
many of their troops—and the hiring of mercenaries to fill out
her armies.

(7.0) CITIES AND TOWNS
PLAY NOTE: Cities and Towns form a major focus in Pax
Romana. Players will quickly discover that they must be built
and they must be defended. They factor into control, defense,
income, and stability.
(7.1) BUILDING AND REBUILDING CITIES
AND TOWNS
(7.11) A player may build and rebuild Cities and Towns. Build-
ing and rebuilding costs Talents (and sometimes units), and those
Talents (and units) must be paid at the time of construction. Each
construction action uses up one of the player’s Minor Moves
(7.11). He may therefore undertake a maximum of two Con-
struction projects per AM.
PLAY NOTE: A Minor Move is the only time when a player may
build Cities or Towns; they cannot be built as part of a Recruit-
ment Operation or during the Manpower Phase.
(7.12) The costs to Build are as follows:
Town: It costs 2T and 1 Garrison unit (12.1) to build
a Town. Towns may be built only in a Space the
building player controls (although he doesn’t need
to control the Province). A Town is built by paying the 2T, re-
moving the Garrison (which must have started that Minor Move
in that space) and placing a Town playing piece in that Space.
City: It costs 3T and one full-strength HI (or LG) to
build a City. No Garrison unit is needed. A City may
be built only in a Space the player controls that al-
ready has both a non-reduced Town and a non-re-
duced LG or HI unit in that space (and it must have been in that
space at the beginning of the current Minor Move). The player
need not control the Province. A City is built by paying the 3T,
removing the HI or LG (the eliminated unit is considered to have
been incorporated into the City's defense strength), and replacing
the Town marker with the City marker. Only full-strength HI or
LG units may be used to build Cities; reduced HI/LG may not.
(7.13) Cities and Towns provide Income (6.1), Civilization Points
(15.3), and Defensive benefits (7.3), as follows:
• Each Full-Strength Town: 1T of income, 1 Civilization Point,
2 Battle Points in defense
• Each Reduced-Strength Town: 0T of income, 0 Civilization
Points, 1 Battle Point in defense
• Each Full-Strength City: 3T of income, 3 Civilization Points,
5 Battle Points in defense
• Each Reduced-Strength City: 1T of income, 1 Civilization
Point, Battle Points in defense equal to current defense strength
(either 4 BP or 3 BP).
(7.14) Cities and Towns may not be built in Mountain spaces.
(7.15) A player build or rebuild only Cities/Towns belonging to
him (i.e., those that bear his power’s City/Town marker). He
may not rebuild Neutral Cities/Towns, nor may he build or re-
build those belonging to another player (even if he is an Ally of
that player).
(7.16) The number of counters provided in the game is not a
limit to building Cities/Towns. If you run out of City/Town mark-
ers, feel free to use counters from another game, or to mix
counters from two Pax Romana games, etc.
(7.2) CONTROL BY CITIES AND TOWNS.
(7.21) Cities and Towns control the spaces in which they are
located, contributing to provincial control like any other Land
unit. A City or Town belongs to its original owner until an en-
emy force captures it, in which case the capturing player owns
it. If a City/Town is destroyed, of course, nobody owns it.
(7.22) Forces entering a Spaces with a City or Town marker must
attack that space, paying the requisite 1 MP for attacking. See
7.3 for how to use Cities/Towns in battle.
(7.23) Forces using Pre-Battle Withdrawal or retreating after
battle may not may not enter spaces containing enemy or neutral
Town or City markers.
(7.3) USING CITIES AND TOWNS IN BATTLE
(7.31) Cities start with 5 Wall Points. Towns start with 2 Wall
Points. Whenever a force is attacked in a City or Town space,
the defending player must declare whether or not the City/Town
(and therefore its Wall Points) is part of the defense. Here are
the possibilities:
• If the City/Town is used, the defending force adds the City's
Wall Points to the total BPs for defense, and may (and some-
times must) use the City's Wall Points to absorb losses (as
outlined below). In addition, neither side may use cavalry or
elephants in the battle (nor may cavalry or elephants be used
to absorb losses), and the defending force may not retreat vol-
untarily nor be forced to retreat (see 10.9).
• If the City/Town is not used, the defending force is attacked
using the normal combat procedure. Both sides may use cav-
alry/elephants in this case, and the defending force may re-
treat voluntarily or be forced to retreat (according to the re-
treat rules – it must have lost the battle, etc.). See 7.36. If the
defending force retreats, the attacker must (not “may”) imme-
diately conduct Battle against the City/Town according to 7.34;
it costs no additional Movement Points to do so (the MP for
attacking has already paid to enter the enemy held space).
• If an Active force is intercepted as it enters a City/Town space
(10.3), and the intercepting force loses the Battle and is forced
to retreat by the Active player, the Active force must (not
“may”) immediately conduct Battle against the City/Town
according to 7.34; it costs no additional Movement Points to
do so.
• The City/Town may be captured or destroyed (7.4) only once
the space is unoccupied by defending combat units, and only
once the Wall Points have reached their minimum (7.33).

(7.32) Each Wall Point counts as 1 BP for battle
purposes (if the defender chooses to use the City/
Town in battle), except that each City/Town Wall
Point counts for 2 BP when distributing losses, if
the defending player chooses to use the City/Town
for that purpose. To indicate a loss in Wall Points,
place a –1 or –2 Wall Points marker under the City
or Town marker to reflect the new Wall Point level.
(7.33) A City's defense strength may never be reduced below 3
Wall Points, nor a Town below 1 Wall Point, as a result of com-
bat. The remaining Wall Points may be eliminated by destroy-
ing the city, however (see 7.43).
(7.34) Undefended Cities/Towns. A City without an Infantry/
Legion garrison defends with BPs equal to its current Wall Points,
unless its Wall Points have reached its minimum (7.33), in which
case the force moving into it (or remaining in it after battle)
simply captures it (7.42).
(7.35) Reduced-Strength Cities/Towns. Reduced-strength Cit-
ies function as Towns for the purpose of calculating Income and
Civilization Points. Reduced-strength Towns provide no income
and no Civilization Points. See 7.46 for how to rebuild.
(7.36) If a force uses a City or Town as part of its defense and
loses the battle, it may not retreat as part of that specific combat,
either voluntarily (10.91) or by force (10.92). During any subse-
quent combat, it may choose not to use the City/Town, in which
case the retreat option is again available.
(7.37) Neutral forces in a space with a City/Town always use the
City/Town as part of their defense.
(7.4) CAPTURING, DESTROYING, AND
REBUILDING
(7.41) Capturing Cities and Towns. If, as a result of Battle, a
City's defense strength falls to 3 Wall Points, or a Town's De-
fense Strength to 1 Wall Point, there are no longer any defend-
ing Infantry/Legion units in the space, and the attacking player
has at least one ground combat unit remaining in the space, the
City/Town has been captured by the attacking player. It is now
owned by that player, and he replaces the City/Town marker
with one of his own, unless he wishes to destroy it (7.43). Any
remaining Cavalry or Elephant units that did not withdraw be-
fore battle are eliminated.
(7.42) An unoccupied City with 3 Wall points, or an unoccupied
Town with 1 Wall Point, is captured the instant another player
moves a force into it, unless for some reason (an alliance, for
example), the moving player does not want to take ownership
(in which case nothing happens).
(7.43) Destroying Cities and Towns. Cities/Towns are destroyed
by the owning player (which might mean the player who has
captured it that Activation) during a Major or Minor Move, by
spending a number of MP equal to the current Wall Point level
of the City/Town. The force must be in the City Space (although
it need not start the Move there) for destruction to occur. Note
that the destruction may take place in any Activation, including
the same Activation as when it was captured. A player may not
voluntarily destroy a City/Town in his own Home Territory.
HISTORICAL NOTE: The poster child for this kind of destruc-
tion is Carthage itself, taken by the Romans in 146 BCE and
not only completely destroyed, but also cursed.
(7.44) If a City/Town is attacked and not captured or destroyed,
the attacker must move back to the space from which it entered
the City/Town space, as per the Regrouping rules (10.97).
(7.45) Barbarian Infantry (13.2) and Soldier of Fortune Armies
(12.4) may capture Cities or Towns. Barbarians may destroy
them, but there is no requirement that they do so. They may
simply move on if the player controlling them so wishes. Cities/
Towns captured by Barbarian Infantry become Independent (re-
place the current City/Town marker with an Independent one).
Cities/Towns captured by Soldier of Fortune Armies instantly
become the property of the SoF player (replace the current City/
Town marker with one belonging to that player). For Slave
Armies and Cities/Towns, see 12.7.
(7.46) Rebuilding Cities and Towns. A player may use a Mi-
nor Move to rebuild the walls of one City or one Town to full
strength. He pays 1T for each Wall Point he adds to the City/
Town's defense strength. When a City has 5 BP or a Town has
2 BP, it is at full strength (remove the BP marker) and begins
functioning in its full capacity for Income, Civilization Point,
and Defense purposes.
(7.5) SACK AND PLUNDER
(7.51) Whenever a City or Town is captured, the Attacker may
choose to Sack and Plunder. To see if it does, roll the die and
compare to its Leader’s Campaign rating. If there are any Mer-
cenaries in that Army, add one (+1) to that dieroll.
• If the adjusted DR is higher than that rating, his Army sacks
and plunders (go to 7.52).
• If the adjusted DR is equal to or lower than that rating, noth-
ing happens.
(7.52) When a Town or City is sacked and plundered, the fol-
lowing occurs:
• If a Town, the player gets Talents equal to a dieroll of 1d6
halved, rounding fractions up.
• If a City, the player gets Talents equal to the dieroll (1d6).
• If the Army contains any Mercenaries or Soldier of Fortune
units, all Talents received from Plunder are halved (for the
player), rounding down.
(7.53) When finished sacking and plundering, roll the die and
compare it to the Leader’s Campaign rating (no adjustments this
time).
• If Equal to or less than that rating, the Army may continue to
move.
• If higher than the rating, the Army is finished for that AM.

(7.54) Barbarian armies (13.0) must use sack and plunder, but
only to determine if they may continue moving. The controlling
player gets no Talents when Barbarians sack and plunder. Slave
Armies (12.7) never use Sack and Plunder.
(7.55) A player never uses Sack and Plunder against Cities or
Towns in his own Home Territory, even if recapturing them from
an enemy player.
PART C: OPERATIONS
8.0 LEADERS
8.1
Choosing Leaders
8.2
Use Of Leaders
8.3
Elite Leaders
8.4
Leader Death (Advanced Game Only)
9.0 LAND MOVEMENT
9.1
Major And Minor Moves
9.2
Movement Point Costs
9.3
Special Spaces
9.4
Isolation And Attrition
10.0 LAND BATTLES
10.1 Win, Lose or Draw
10.2 Land Battle Sequence
10.3 Interception
10.4 Pre-Battle Withdrawal.
10.5 Resolving Land Battles
10.6 Cavalry And Elephants In Battle
10.7 Siege Expertise
10.8 Reducing Legions and Heavy Infantry
10.9 Retreating And Regrouping
11.0 NAVAL OPERATIONS
11.1 Naval Movement
11.2 Naval Disaster
11.3 Naval Transport
11.4 Naval Battles
(8.0) LEADERS
(8.1) CHOOSING LEADERS
(8.11) All Players start each Game-Turn with two (2) Leaders in
play. Independent Leaders and Soldiers of Fortune do not count
against that limit.
(8.12) A Player’s Leaders for each Game-Turn are selected anew
from his Leader Pool, during his Leader Phase. The Leader Pool
for each player consists of all 10 Leader counters. No Leaders
from the previous Game-Turn remain on the map; they are all
removed in the Removal Phase of the next Game-Turn and placed
back into The Pool, before making the new selections (but see
8.14). Leaders are chosen by drawing the counters from your
Leader Pool, blindly and randomly.
(8.13) If a leader is removed from the map for any reason during
the Game-Turn, whether through Leader Death (8.4) or a card
such as “Disease” (17.2), he is not replaced until the Leader Se-
lection phase of the next Turn.
(8.14) All leaders are eligible for selection each Game-Turn ex-
cept for Elite Leaders, which may not be in play two Game-
Turns in a row (8.3).
(8.15) When chosen, the first Leader drawn must be placed in
that player’s capital. (For The East and Greece, either capital
will do.) The second Leader may be deployed in any friendly-
occupied Space on the map. If the capital is enemy occupied,
place each Leader in a friendly-occupied Space on the map.
(8.2) USE OF LEADERS
(8.21) Leaders are rated for two capabilities:
Tactical: this is the number of Battle Die-Roll Shifts (from 1 to
4) that Leader may apply to Land Battles (10.51), the die-roll
modifier that Leader may apply to Interception attempts (10.32),
and the number that determines which army (if any) gets the
Die-Roll Shift in a battle involving a City/Town (10.51).
Campaign: this is a number (from 2 to 6) which, when added to
the Movement dieroll, produces the number of Movement Points
that Leader and his Army may use for Land Movement. It does
not apply to Naval Movement except in the case of Naval Trans-
port.
(8.22) Leaders are not required in order to move/use an Army.
Any Army without a Leader is automatically considered to have
a leader with “0-0” ratings.
(8.23) Leaders Moving Alone. Leaders normally move with an
Army or Fleet, but they may also move by themselves. They do
so by using one of the Major or Minor Moves. Leaders moving
by themselves roll for movement as usual, adding their Cam-
paign rating to the die-roll (even if using a Minor Move). The
following considerations apply:
• Leaders picking up Land Units pay the usual 1 MP to do so –
but they may do so only in a Major Move.
• Leaders may be picked up by a force or unit during a Major or
Minor Move. It costs the moving force/unit no MP to do so,
but the leader does not get to add his Campaign Rating to the
MPs available during that Move. He does, however, add his
Tactical Rating to any Battles initiated by that force or unit
during that move (this includes a Leader being moved with a
single unit during a Minor Move).
Tactical
Rating
Front
Back
Campaign
Rating
Elite
Leader

• If using Naval Transport to move on his own, the Leader does
not pay the cost in movement points to embark or debark.
Leaders using Naval Transport are subject to Naval Disasters
(11.2).
• If a Leader moves entirely by himself, without picking up any
forces, his movement allowance is doubled.
(8.24) Leaders may co-exist in the same Space, with the same
Army. Only one (player’s choice) may be considered for pur-
poses of combat and movement enhancement. It is permissible
to move an Army using the Command Rating of one leader and
then switch to the Tactical Rating of a different leader if that
army engages in combat during that Activation.
(8.3) ELITE LEADERS
Each player has at least one “Elite” leader. Elite Leaders are so
indicated with a small “E” on the counter.
• An Elite Leader may never be used two Game-Turns in a row.
Thus, his counter is not placed back in The Pool until the be-
ginning of the second Leader Selection Phase after his ap-
pearance. He is removed after his first Game-Turn of appear-
ance and placed in the Elite Leaders holding box on the map.
• Powers with two Elite Leaders may have consecutive Game-
Turns with Elites, but not the same one.
• A Player may not have two Elite Leaders in play at the same
time. If one is drawn after the other, place the Elite Leader
back into The Pool after drawing another.
• Elite Leaders may become Conquerors, by Event (Standard
Game) or card play (Advanced Game). Conquerors continue
to abide by all Elite Leader rules.
(8.4) LEADER DEATH
(8.41) Every land battle (but not Naval Battle) carries with it the
possibility of a Leader being killed. This is true even if the
Leader’s force suffered no losses. Each player rolls two dice
(2d6).
• If the Winner rolls a ‘12’, his Leader is dead.
• If the Loser, or either player in a Draw, rolls a ‘2’ or a ‘12’, the
Leader is dead.
(8.42) The dead Leader’s force may continue to move after battle
as per 9.2, but it subtracts one (–1) from the remaining MPs
available because of the Leader death. Note that, in the case of
the force losing the battle AND losing the Leader, the remaining
MPs would be reduced by two (–2).
(8.43) If a Fleet is sunk in its entirety, any Leaders with that
Fleet are also lost (considered dead).
(8.44) If a force is destroyed in its entirety, any Leaders with
that force are also lost (considered dead).
(8.45) Dead Leaders are not replaced, although the counter does
go back into The Pool. (Remember, you don’t need Leaders to
undertake Operations; they just help a lot.)
(8.46) Leaders with Garrison Units: Garrisons are not consid-
ered Land Units, so if they are alone in a space and destroyed by
a force entering that space, this is not considered a Land Battle.
As a result, the enemy force does not have to roll for Leader
Death in such a case. If the non-active force has a Leader with
the destroyed Garrison unit, the Leader is also lost (considered
dead).
EXAMPLE OF MOVEMENT: A Carthaginian Army led by
their 4-6 Elite Leader begins a Major Move at Emporiae, in
Hispania just south of the Gallic border. The Carthaginian
Player rolls 1d6 for Movement and gets a 5, to which he
adds the Leader’s Campaign Rating for a total of 11 Move-
ment Points. He decides to head over the Alps and into Italia
to destroy the power of Rome, granting his father’s dying
wish. He moves north to Narbo (1 MP), and then north again
into Nemausus, for which he pays 2 MP because it still con-
tains its initial Tribal marker. He flips the Tribal marker,
revealing 2 TI (no tribes), and he conducts Battle, winning
easily. So he continues on, having spent 3 MP thus far. He
heads north to Valentia (1 MP) and then east into the Alpine
Pass for 2 MP. Here he rolls for Alps Attrition (9.43), after
which he continues to Taurinorum. So far, 7 MP. His 8th MP
takes him east to Mediolanum, and with his 9th he moves to
Parma. He sees a Roman Army one space south in Arretium,
so he spends his remaining 2 MP to move in and fight. After
a brilliant victory, he knows that his father rests in peace, so
he decides to hang around Italia for several years and try to
convert the locals to his cause.

(9.0) LAND MOVEMENT
(9.1) MAJOR AND MINOR MOVES
(9.11) If a player has chosen an Expansion Operation (Military),
he may perform:
• one (1) Major Move, in which he conducts operations with all
(or some) units, of any kind—usually an Army or a Fleet—
that start in any one Space, and
• two (2) Minor Moves, in each of which he conducts opera-
tions with one unit only (land, naval, garrison or Leader). The
term “one unit” means “1” unit of that type, such as “1 HI”, “1
LG”, or “1 SQ” (see Glossary, 1.4). Example: a player could
move a 1 point HI unit and one Galley Squadron as his two
Minor Moves.
• as one (or both) of his Minor Moves he may, instead, under-
take Construction or Rebuilding of a City or Town (see 7.1).
(9.12) To move Armies or Individual Units, a player expends
Movement Points (MP). An Army’s MP total for a given Major
Move is equal to its Leader’s (with whom it is stacked) Cam-
paign rating plus a 1d6 dieroll. The MP total of an Army without
a leader, or an Individual Unit, is equal to the 1d6 dieroll only.
The player rolls for each force separately; he specifies which
force he is activating, rolls the die, and immediately conducts
the operation.
EXAMPLE: A 2 Campaign-rated Leader and a DR of ‘5’ means
that Army can move up to 7 MP.
(9.13) Major and Minor Moves may be conducted in any order
the Active Player wishes.
(9.14) No Land unit may be moved more than once in a single
Activation. For example, you cannot move a unit in a Major
Move and then move it again in a Minor Move. However, Gal-
ley Squadrons may be moved more than once in an Activation
as long as in all movement instances they are escorting a Naval
Transport mission (see 11.32).
(9.2) MOVEMENT POINT COSTS
(9.21) Moving Armies or Units spend MP as follows:
1 MP to enter an unoccupied or friendly-occupied Space or Tran-
sit Point (except for Mountain spaces or Alpine Pass spaces—
see below). The presence of Fleets in the Space has no effect.
Note that a Space from which an enemy force has withdrawn
before combat (10.4) is considered unoccupied.
2 MP to:
• enter a Space by crossing a Strait (9.33)
• enter a Mountain Space or Alpine Pass Space (9.32)
1 MP to embark and debark for Naval Transport (11.3).
1 MP to create garrisons (12.14) as part of a Movement Opera-
tion.
1 MP to pick up friendly units. There is no cost to drop them off,
although dropped-off units may move no further that Move.
Picked-up units assume MP’s equal to those that remain for that
Leader/Army.
1 MP to Attack (over and above the cost of entering the Space).
An Active force must attack whenever it enters a space occupied
by Enemy units (including Barbarians, Tribes, Towns, Cities,
Garrisons, and Land Units – but not Elephants or Leaders alone–
that do not exercise Pre-Battle Withdrawal (10.4), or any time it
enters a space containing Barbarian, Tribal, or Neutral units.
When entering the space, the Active force must have enough
MP remaining to launch the attack assuming the defenders do
not withdraw.
1 MP for a force to continue moving (over and above the cost of
any spaces entered) after losing a Battle.
1 MP for an Attacker who wins a Battle to force the Defender to
retreat.
PLAY NOTE: If you don’t have enough MP to do what you want
to do, you can’t do it. For example, if for a Minor Move you roll
a 1, and you want to enter a Mountain Fortress space, you sim-
ply don’t have enough MP to do so. There are no “minimum
moves” in the game.
(9.22) How to Move: Land units move from one Space or Tran-
sit Point to another by way of the Land Connections (including
Straits) between the two. If there is no Land Connection, that
army may not move there (unless there is a Sea Connection and
it is being Transported). Example: There is no way a unit may
move from Gergovia directly to Uxellodorum (Gaul).
(9.3) SPECIAL SPACES
(9.31) Transit Points. These are treated the same as a regular
Land Space except that no units may ever stop (voluntarily or
involuntarily) in one. Therefore, you may not move into a Tran-
sit Point if do not have enough MP to move beyond it into a
Space.
(9.32) The Alpine Passes. Alpine passes are the Land Spaces
that are located straddling the Mountain borders between sev-
eral provinces (one of which is always Italy). Any Army that
enters one of these Alpine Passes must roll for Alps Attrition. To
check for Alps Attrition, follow the Attrition procedure (9.43).
No Army may ever stop in an Alpine Pass.
(9.33) Straits. Straits are places where Land units may cross
over water without using Naval Transport. The following land
connections are straits:
• Between Tingi (Mauretania) and the Transit Point in Baetica.
May cross into Mauretania if Tingi unoccupied or friendly
controlled.
• Between Messana (Sicily) and Rhegium (Bruttium). May cross
if destination is either unoccupied or friendly occupied.
• Between Sestus (Thrace) and Abydos (Ionia). Allows cross-
ing between Europe and Asia.
• Between Byzantium (Thrace) and Nicomedia (Pontus). Al-
lows crossing between Europe and Asia.
Note: Land units may cross straits only if there are no enemy
Galley Squadrons in either of the Land Spaces (origin or desti-
nation) joined by the strait.

(9.4) ISOLATION AND ATTRITION
(9.41) At the end of each Game-Turn, in the Isolation Phase,
players check to see if Spaces containing their non-Garrison Land
units can trace a Line of Communication (6.15) back to any
friendly Space in their Home Territory. If that Space cannot do
so, it is Isolated and must undergo Attrition.
(9.42) Units in Towns and Cities are never Isolated. Nor are non-
player units (Barbarians, Tribes, Neutrals, etc.). Nor are neutrals
currently controlled by a player (such as Pergamene units when
Pergamum is allied). Mercenary units, however, are subject to
Isolation.
(9.43) To determine attrition, roll one die (1d6) for each Isolated
Space. The result determines the percentage of Units (not Battle
Points) eliminated from that space, with all fractions rounded
up. Garrison units and Leaders in the Space may not be used to
satisfy losses (but Elephants can, as well as Cavalry, Infantry,
Legions, Mercenaries etc.) The formula is as follows:
• Die-roll of 1-2 = 10% of units (round fractions up) eliminated.
• Die-roll of 3-4 = 20% of units (round fractions up) eliminated.
• Die-roll of 5-6 = 30% of units (round fractions up) eliminated.
Note that rounding fractions up means that attrition will always
eliminate at least one unit.
EXAMPLE: Carthage has a stack of 3 HI and 3 LI isolated. On
a die-roll of 4, 20% of the 6 units are eliminated. 20% of 6 is
1.2, which rounds up to 2. The Carthaginian player may choose
to eliminate two HI, two LI, or one of each.
(9.44) After all Land unit attrition is completed, any Fleets that
are not in a friendly-controlled Port in the Isolation Phase are
destroyed. Remember that a port in a non-Home province is con-
trolled only if occupied by a friendly Land unit, Garrison, Town,
or City (but not Elephant or Leader), as per 5.11 and 5.14.
(9.45) Optional Rule: Attrition in Mountain Spaces (Advanced
Game Only). Any time an Army larger than 2 units in size be-
gins its owning player's Activation in a Mountain Fortress space,
and does not move from that space during that Activation, it
suffers attrition as per the formula in 9.43. The attrition occurs
at the end of that Activation.
(10.0) LAND BATTLES
Any time an Army enters a Land Movement Space occupied by
enemy Land units of any type, a battle occurs, unless the non-
Active force Withdraws. Except in the case of Interception, the
Active force is the Attacker, the non-Active force the Defender.
With Interceptions, the reverse is true.
PLAY NOTE: Battle resolution takes a whole lot longer to read
about than it does to play. Essentially, you roll the die, and the
result multiplied by 10 is what your opponent loses. The player
with the most advantages in that battle can change the results
of the die-rolls in a few specific ways.
EXAMPLE: A Roman army attacks a Carthaginian army at 2:1
odds. Right off the bat, there are 2 shifts in favor of Rome. How-
ever, Carthage has a leader with a Tactical Rating of 3, while
Rome’s is only 2. Rome now has only 1 shift to work with. Fi-
nally, Carthage has cavalry supremacy, which provides 3 shifts
in Carthage’s favor. Final tally: 2 shifts for Carthage. Now, Rome
rolls 4, Carthage rolls 1. This means 40% losses for Carthage,
10% for Rome. Carthage can use the two shifts to do any one of
the following: (a) raise Roman losses to 30% with no change in
Carthaginian losses; (b) lower Carthaginian losses to 20% with
no change in Roman losses. Raise Roman losses to 20% while
decreasing Carthaginian losses to 30%.
(10.1) WIN, LOSE, OR DRAW.
At the end of the Battle, the player who loses the lower percent-
age of his force is the Winner. The player losing the higher per-
centage is the Loser. If the percentages are the same, the battle is
a Draw.
(10.2) LAND BATTLE SEQUENCE
The following steps constitute the Battle sequence.
Step 1: Either the Active force pays one MP to Attack, or a suc-
cessfully Intercepting force enters the Battle Space. In either case,
the other force is the Defender.
Step 2: Except in the case of Interception, the Defender deter-
mines if he wishes to engage in Pre-Battle Withdrawal. If so, he
follows the Withdrawal rules (10.4). If he succeeds in leaving
the space, the battle is over (although the Active force may fol-
low and re-engage—see 10.42). If not, the sequence continues.
Step 3: If the Battle is in a City or Town space, the Defender
determines if he wishes to use the City or Town in the defense
(7.3). If so, players may bid for Siege Expertise (10.7).
Step 4: Each player determines if he will use Elephants and, if
so, follows the Elephant rules (10.66).
Step 5: Each Player calculates his Battle Points (BP) total (10.51).
Step 6: The BP totals are compared as a ratio of the Larger Force
to the Smaller Force. See the Battle Odds and Shift Table.
Step 7: Each player rolls 1d6. These are the Battle Die-Rolls.
Each player’s result is applied (after Steps 8-10 are determined)
to the opposing force.
Step 8: The number of Battle Die-Roll Shifts is determined, based
on Battle Ratio, Leadership, Cavalry participation, and more.
See 10.5 and the Battle Die-Roll Shifts Summary Table.
Step 9: The player with the most Shifts modifies one or both
Battle Die-Rolls as he wishes.
Step 10: The modified Battle Die-Rolls are each multiplied by
10, the result being the percentage of BP lost by each force. The
force losing the higher percentage is the Loser of the battle.

Step 11: The Defending player (if he is the Loser) decides if he
will retreat his army (10.91). If he does so, he decreases his losses
by 10% (i.e., one die-roll Shift). If he decides to retreat, and the
Winner has Cavalry Superiority or Supremacy, the Winner may
roll to prevent retreat (10.96). If the Defender chooses not to
retreat, the Attacker may force him to do so, spending 1 MP to
do so.
Step 12: Both players distribute their losses (10.52).
Step 13: If the Defender’s army does not retreat, the Attacker’s
army must move back to the space from which it entered the
battle space (10.97).
Step 14: Both sides check for Leader loss (8.4)
Step 15: The active Player determines if he wishes to continue
to move. If he was the Loser, he subtracts 1 MP from his remain-
ing MP total.
(10.3) INTERCEPTION
(10.31) A force may attempt to intercept any other force that
moves into a directly connected Land Space (but not into a Transit
Point or Alpine Pass space, or across a Strait). Leaders on their
own may intercept if the directly connected Space has a friendly
Army in it (in other words, they may ride out to help with a
battle that’s about to occur). There are no limits to the number of
times an Army, Unit, or Leader may attempt interception; when-
ever an enemy force moves into an eligible Space, whether dur-
ing Movement, Pre-Battle Withdrawal, or Retreat from Com-
bat, the enemy force may attempt to intercept it (the only excep-
tion is that forces that are Regrouping (see 10.97) may not be
intercepted). Indeed, forces may be intercepted as they enter any
given space by multiple eligible forces, with the Battles resolved
one at a time.
DESIGN NOTE: The unlimited ability to intercept forces is
one of the design choices that makes Pax Romana different
from many other games. It’s important to keep in mind the
scale of this game, and the fact that movement, battle, and
interception represent a range of activities over a significant
duration of time.
(10.32) To intercept, roll 2d6 and add all of the following that
apply:
+? Intercepting Leader’s Tactical Rating
+3 if intercepting from a City Space
+1 if intercepting from a Town Space
+1 if intercepting into one’s own City Space (but not Town
Space)
If the adjusted DR result is 12 or greater, the Interception has
succeeded. The intercepting Army moves into the target Space
and immediately initiates Battle, with itself as the Attacker and
the Active force as the defender.
(10.33) Interceptions follow the normal Battle Sequence (10.2)
with two exceptions:
EXAMPLE OF INTERCEPTION #2: A 2-5 Roman leader
in Rome (which is a City) wishes to intercept a Carthaginian
army that has moved into Pisae (which is a Town) in order
to attack a leaderless Roman legion there. The Roman player
wants his Leader to help with the battle, so he rolls for in-
terception. He rolls two dice with a result of 8. He adds 2 for
his Tactical Rating and another 3 for being in a City. The
total is 8+2+3=13, so the interception succeeds. After the
battle, the Carthaginian army continues his move and heads
to Arretium. The Roman player may attempt to intercept once
again, but this time he receives the Town benefit, not the
City benefit. He rolls an 8, to which he adds his Battle Rat-
ing of 2 and the Town DRM of 1. The result is 11, and the
interception attempt fails.
EXAMPLE OF INTERCEPTION #1: A 2-5 Roman leader
in Rome (which is a City) wishes to intercept a Carthaginian
army that has moved into Pisae (which is a Town). He rolls
two dice with a result of 7. He adds 2 for his Tactical Rating
and another 3 for being in a City. The total is 7+2+3=12, so
the interception succeeds. He would have failed on a roll of
6 or less.

• in the ensuing battle, the Intercepting (non-Active) force is
the Attacker, while the Intercepted (Active) force is the de-
fender. However, this is not the case if only a Leader inter-
cepts (in which case the Active force remains the Attacker).
• Intercepted units may not engage in Pre-Battle Withdrawal
(exception: 10.62).
(10.34) If a force intercepts into a non-City/Town space already
containing a friendly force, all units automatically combine in
the attack.
(10.35) If a force intercepts into a space containing a friendly
City or Town, before attempting the interception the intercept-
ing player declares whether or not any of the units in the Battle
space will use the City/Town for defense:
• If none will use the City/Town, then if the interception suc-
ceeds all units combine in the attack
• If some will use the City/Town, then if the interception suc-
ceeds only those units combine with the intercepting army in
the attack. The remaining units do not participate in the battle,
but are committed to using the City/Town in defense if the
intercepting army is defeated and retreats to the space from
which it entered the Battle space. The attack on the City/Town
must take place immediately after the intercepting force leaves
the space (at no extra cost in Movement Points to the Active
army).
(10.36) If an Active player moves into a space in order to fight a
neutral force (Pergamum, Syracuse, etc.), and a non-Active player
intercepts into the Battle Space, the neutral force and the inter-
cepting force are considered one force for the purposes of that
battle (identically to 10.34 – and 10.35 applies for the neutral
force if the Battle Space contains a City/Town). However, if the
intercepting/neutrals force loses the battle, only the intercepting
force regroups; the neutral force remains in the space and the
originally moving force immediately attacks it. If the intercept-
ing/neutrals force wins the battle, however, the intercepting force
must still return to the space from which it entered the battle; it
does not stay in the neutral’s space, nor does it attack the neu-
tral. In effect, it formed a temporary alliance with that neutral
for the sake of turning back the enemy force.
(10.37) The Active force may continue to move after the Battle in
which it was Intercepted, if it has sufficient MP remaining. If the
Active force loses the Battle, it loses one of its remaining MP.
(10.38) Land forces undergoing Naval Transport may be inter-
cepted only once they debark (and see 10.37). Naval movement
itself may never be intercepted (but in the Advanced Game, play
of the Naval Ambush card is similar to interception).
(10.39) When a force conducts Naval Transport to a port space
containing a friendly City/Town marker and debarks in that port
space, if the force is intercepted it may use the City/Town in the
defense. This is an exception to 10.34.
PLAY NOTE: In effect, the force has sailed into the port and is
thus inside the City if it wishes to be.
(10.4) PRE-BATTLE WITHDRAWAL.
(10.41) When a moving Army enters an enemy-occupied Land
Movement Space, the Defender may Withdraw. To do so, the
defending player rolls the die (1d6). The result is the number of
Land MP the withdrawing Army may use. It may use fewer, but
must use at least one (unless prevented by cavalry or terrain from
using any at all, as explained below). Once it has finished its
Withdrawal Movement, it may not do so again during that Move
(although it could Withdraw in a different move in the same
Activation).
(10.42) If the withdrawal is successful, the active Army is con-
sidered to have spent only the MP required by the terrain in the
space, not the +1 MP for entering an enemy-controlled space. If
the active Army has enough MP remaining, it may continue its
movement, including, if desired, pursuing the withdrawn force
and attacking it.
(10.43) If the Attacking army has Cavalry Superiority or Cav-
alry Supremacy, it may (not must) choose to use its cavalry to
hinder Withdrawal, modifying the Withdrawal die-roll as fol-
• Subtract one (–1) from the result if the attacking Army uses
its cavalry superiority (10.61) to hinder Withdrawal.
• Subtract three (–3) from the result if the attacking Army uses
its cavalry supremacy (10.61) to hinder Withdrawal.
• This rule does not apply if the Battle Space is a Mountain
Fortress space or a Port Space from which the Defender with-
draws using Naval Transport (11.3).
(10.44) At no time during Withdrawal may units withdraw into
the Space from which the attacking unit directly entered the Battle
Space. Nor may they Withdraw into a space occupied by non-
friendly Cities, Towns, or Land units (including tribes and bar-
barians), unless that space is occupied solely by a Garrison—in
which case they move through the space at a cost of +1 MP, and
the Garrison remains in place. Note that Garrisons by themselves
may never use Withdrawal. If the attacked units cannot With-
draw (or decide not to), combat ensues.
(10.45) Other Withdrawal Considerations:
• Intercepted units may not use Pre-Battle Withdrawal. Once
intercepted, they fight.
• All units in the Space need not withdraw together. The Player
may leave one or more behind and withdraw the remainder
(those left behind must fight the battle). Units may be dropped
off (at no cost in MP) or picked up (at a cost of 1 MP) during
the Withdrawal.
• Withdrawing units may be intercepted as per the Interception
rules (10.31), but not by the currently Active force (i.e., the
force that caused the withdrawal).
• Withdrawing units may use naval transport (if they obtained
enough MPs to do so), but after embarking, all restrictions of
10.95 (Retreat by Sea) apply.

• For each instance in which a Player uses Pre-Battle Withdrawal
from a Space within its Home Territory, his Stability Level
drops by one (–1), even if that Province is controlled by an-
other Player.
(10.5) RESOLVING LAND BATTLES
(10.51) Battles are resolved by following these steps.
Step 1: The Players total their Battle Points (BP) as follows:
4 BP for each Legion (LG) unit
3 BP for each Heavy Infantry (HI) unit
1 BP for each Light Infantry (LI), Barbarian Infantry (BI), or
Militia unit
1 BP for each Cavalry unit (but not Roman Legionary Cavalry)
5, 4 or 3 BP for Defending in a City (1 BP per City defense
strength)
2 or 1 BP for Defending in Town (1 BP per Wall Point)
2 BP for each Reduced Legion unit
1 BP for each Reduced HI unit
0 BP for each Elephant unit
0 BP for each Garrison unit
Note that neither force may withhold any units from the Battle
(but see 10.34).
Step 2: The BP totals are compared as a ratio of the Larger Force
to the Smaller force (not Attacker to Defender as in many games).
For example, 12 BP vs. 6 BP equals 2:1. Ratios are rounded to
the nearest listed ratio, so that 11 BP vs. 6 BP is a 2:1, while 10
BP vs. 6 BP is 1.5:1. See the Battle Odds and Shifts Chart for
help in calculating these ratios.
Step 3: The Players each roll one die. This is the Battle Die-
Roll. The result, modified by the Battle Die-Roll Shifts discussed
immediately below and multiplied by 10, is the percentage of
losses suffered by the opposing force. For example, your un-
modified die-roll of 3 means your opponent loses 30% of the
force he used in this battle.
Step 4: The Players calculate the Battle Die-Roll Shifts as fol-
• The player owning the larger force gets a number of Shifts
equal to his number in the Battle Ratio. For example: 2:1 odds
yields 2 Shifts, 4:1 yields 4 shifts. However, 1:5:1 gives 1
shift, while 1:1 provides none. See the Battle Odds and Shifts
chart.
• If either force has Cavalry Superiority (10.61), that player gets
1 Shift.
• If either force has Cavalry Supremacy (10.61), that player gets
3 Shifts.
• The player whose Leader has the higher Tactical Rating (8.21)
gets a number of shifts equal to the difference between his
Leader’s Tactical Rating and that of his opponent’s Leader,
except in a battle where a City or Town is used for defense
(7.3), in which case the benefit of a higher Tactical Rating is
limited to only one shift.
• If the Battle is taking place in a Mountain Pass space, the De-
fender gets 2 Shifts.
• An Army defending against an Amphibious Attack gets 2
Shifts.
• If a player bids successfully for Siege Expertise (for battles
involving a City/Town), he gets 1 Shift.
• Certain Event Cards (Advanced Game Only) provide Battle
Die-Roll Shifts.
Step 5: The Player with the most shifts subtracts his opponent’s
Shift total from his own. The result is the number of Shifts avail-
able to that Player. EXAMPLE: Player A has 2:1 odds and Cav-
alry Superiority, so he gets 3 Shifts. Meanwhile, Player B gets 1
Shift, because his leader’s Tactical Rating is 1 higher than Player
A’s leader. Player A therefore gets 2 shifts total (his 3 minus his
opponent’s 1). Assuming enough shifts, the die-roll may end up
as low as zero (0) or as high as ten (10).
Step 6: The Player with the most Shifts now shifts either or both
Battle Die-Rolls as he wishes, raising his own die-roll by 1 for
each Shift (thereby increasing his opponent’s losses) and lower-
ing his opponent’s die-roll by 1 for each Shift (thereby decreas-
ing his own losses). The Player with the lesser number of Shifts
gets to do nothing here (his Shifts are already factored in).
Step 7: Each Player’s modified die-roll is then multiplied by 10,
with the result being the percentage of losses suffered by the
opposing side. The force suffering the higher percentage loss is
the Loser of the Battle (the other player is the Winner, of course).
Step 8: Each Player distributes his losses (10.52).
EXAMPLE #1: Greece has a force consisting of 5 HI, 6 LI, and
a 2-4 Leader. The East has 3 HI and 2 LI, and a 1-5 Leader.
Greece has 21 BP vs. 11 for the East, so the Battle Ratio (rounded
to the nearest listed ratio) is 2:1. Greece therefore has 2 Shifts
for Battle Odds. Greece's Leader has a higher Tactical Rating
by 1, so Greece gets an additional Shift. Greece rolls a 3, East
rolls a 5. Greece uses its 3 Shifts to lower East's roll by 3, to a
modified result of 2. The result is that Greece loses 20% of its
force, while the East loses 30% of its force. Greece could have
raised its own die-roll to a 6 instead, inflicting 60% losses on
The East but suffering 50% of its own, or any combination of
modifications it wished.
EXAMPLE #2: Assume the same forces as above, except that

Greece has 4 cavalry units and The East has 2. In addition, the
East has a Tactical Surprise card in his hand. Greece has the
same 3 Shifts as above, plus 1 Shift for Cavalry Superiority (he
as more cavalry than the East, but not three times as much,
which he would need for Supremacy). He announces he has 4
Shifts, at which point the East plays the card. The result is a
final total of 2 Shifts for the Greek player to distribute.
(10.52) Distributing Losses. Each player chooses how to dis-
tribute his Losses, which are calculated as follows:
• Infantry elimination based on the BP value of the unit type (as
per 10.51).
• Legion or Heavy Infantry reduction as per 10.8.
• Cavalry elimination equal to 1 BP per Cavalry unit.
• City or Town reduction, as per 7.32.
(10.53) When calculating losses, all fractions are calculated
mathematically (with .5 rounded up instead of down), and the
loss dictated by the Shifted die-roll result for each force is the
minimum number of BP that must be removed. For example, if
an Army consisting of 3 HI (9 BP) suffers a 40% loss, which
comes to 3.6 BP, that result is rounded up to 4 BP. The player
would lose one full HI (3 BP) and flip a second HI to Reduced
status (2 BP). Note that he would have no choice but to absorb 5
BP total, even though the result demanded only 4 BP, because
he has no 1-BP units to soak up the smaller losses.
(10.54) When calculating losses, the Battle Points for the City
or Town used in the Battle are included in the total. So if 2 LI
units defend in a City (as an example), the percentage loss is
based on 7 BP, not just on the 2 BP from the infantry units.
DESIGN NOTE: Factoring the City/Town into the losses repre-
sents the damage inflicted from sieges, siege assaults, etc.
(10.55) Re-Rolls (Optional Rule).
DESIGN NOTE: This Re-Roll rule was added as a means of
countering playtester concerns about smaller forces defeating
larger forces, especially forces at least twice as large. The rule
is optional because other playtesters liked the original system
just fine. It’s an enjoyable rule to play, however, because it fur-
ther takes into account the power that good leadership had in
ancient warfare, and because it adds another player decision.
Use it if you and your opponents agree to it, realizing that it
can have some effect but typically not a great deal.
For battles in which the larger force has at least twice as many
Battle Points as the smaller force—i.e. 2:1 odds—and rolls a
lower number (unmodified) than the smaller force, the player
with the larger force may attempt to demand a re-roll of either
player’s Battle Die-Roll. He first commits to the re-roll attempt
(no backing out), and then totals the Tactical Rating and the
Campaign Rating of his force’s leader. He then rolls two dice
(2d6).
• If the 2d6 result is equal to or less than the Tactical-Campaign
Rating total, he succeeds. He may then re-roll his own Battle
Die-Roll, subtracting one (–1) from the result, or he may de-
mand that his opponent re-roll the smaller army’s Battle Die-
Roll, adding one (+1) to the result. In both cases, Elite Lead-
ers add one (+1) to the result.
• If the 2d6 result is higher than the Tactical-Campaign Rating
total, the attempt fails. The player with the smaller force may
then attempt to demand a re-roll of either of the two Battle
Die-Rolls. He rolls 2d6 and subtracts two (–2) from the result,
comparing this to the total of his own Leader’s Tactical and
Campaign Ratings. If he succeeds, he then states which Battle
Die he wants re-rolled, with no modifiers applied. If he fails,
the re-roll procedure is finished.
(10.56) Simplified Rounding (Optional Rule).
DESIGN NOTE: Many wargames round combat ratios down in
favor of the defender. Pax Romana uses mathematical rounding
to determine the relative strength of the forces in battle. For
example, in many games, a ratio of 26:10 would round down to
a ratio of 2:1, but Pax Romana rounds the ratio up to 3:1. The
dividing point is .5; for combat ratios, .5 rounds down (con-
sider it a nod to the idea of rounding in favor of the defender).
However, for determining combat losses, .5 rounds up, so if you
calculate your loss to be 2.4 Battle Points, you lose 2 BP, but a
loss of 2.5 Battle Points means you lose 3 BP. The following
rule provides a simplified way to round numbers in battles, for
those who prefer it. It does, however, alter game balance some-
what in favor of the defender.
For simplified rounding, calculate the Battle Shifts for army
strength as follows:
More BP than the opposing force = 1 shift
At least 2x the BP of the opposing force = 2 shifts
At least 3x the BP of the opposing force = 3 shifts
At least 4x the BP of the opposing force = 4 shifts
Etc.
All other shifts apply as per Step 4 in 10.51.
(10.6) CAVALRY AND ELEPHANTS IN
BATTLE
(10.61) Each Cavalry unit adds one BP to its force, but its ef-
fects can be far more significant. An Army with Cavalry Superi-
ority provides one (1) Battle Die-Roll Shift; an Army with Cav-
alry Supremacy provides three (3) Shifts. An Army has Cavalry
Supremacy if it has three times (3X) as many Cavalry units as
the opponent, or if it has 2 Cavalry units and the opponent has
none. An Army has Cavalry Superiority if it has more Cavalry
units than the opponent, but not enough for Supremacy. Cavalry
units may be negated by elephants (see 10.66).
(10.62) Cavalry may not be used in any way (either attacking or
defending) for battles that take place in Mountain spaces or in
battles in which a Town or City has been factored into the BP
total (nor may they used to absorb losses in such cases). If Cav-
alry are part of a force that uses the Town or City in defense, and
the non-Cavalry units are eliminated, the Cavalry is automati-
cally eliminated. In addition, cavalry may not be used by the
attacker in Amphibious Attacks.

(10.63) Cavalry fighting alone: If cavalry units are in a Space
with no infantry units (Garrisons do not count as infantry), treat
each cavalry unit as 1 BP. The Superiority/Supremacy rule still
applies. If alone in a Mountain Fortress and attacked, Cavalry
automatically executes Pre-Battle Withdrawal.
(10.64) Roman Legionary Cavalry (Advanced Game Only).
Starting with Game-Turn III (250-225 BCE), Roman LG units
(including those already on the map) have integrated cavalry
forces. For every two (2) full-strength LG units in a stack, the
Romans have one (1) cavalry unit, for the purpose of determin-
ing Cavalry Superiority. Count the number of full-strength LG
in the stack and divide by 2, rounding down to get the cavalry
strength (examples: 1 LG has no cavalry, 2-3 LG have 1 cavalry,
4-5 LG have 2 cavalry, etc.). The Roman player does not put
cavalry units on the map for this purpose, and the cavalry may
never operate separately from their LG unit. These Cavalry units
do not count as BP in determining battle ratios, nor may they be
used to satisfy combat losses (i.e., you can’t lose just the cavalry
portion of a Legion). Furthermore, Legionary Cavalry without
regular Cavalry may never gain Cavalry Supremacy. The Ro-
man player may recruit regular Cavalry units (from provinces
that allow such recruitment) and use those in conjunction with
the Legionary Cavalry, but until he has at least as many regular
cavalry as Legionary Cavalry in the Army in question, he is re-
stricted to Cavalry Superiority. Note that the Roman player may
not “suppress” his Legionary Cavalry in order to match the num-
bers with regular Cavalry more easily; if he has four LG (as an
example), he must use his two Legionary Cavalry units.
PLAY NOTE: The Legionary Cavalry rule proved extremely
popular in playtesting, and it reflects the historical situation
reasonably well, but we’ve made it an Advanced Game rule for
the sake of simplicity in the Standard Game. Feel free to use it
in the Standard Game if you want, though, as several testers
did, and feel free not to use it in the Advanced Game, as other
testers did. The primary benefits of the rule are that (a) the
Roman player starts thinking in terms of consular armies, which
historically consisted of two full legions, and (b) the Roman
player has to start thinking of ways to recruit regular Cavalry
in significant amounts if he ever wants to overcome the medioc-
rity of the built-in cavalry of the legions. Legionary cavalry
represent the integral cavalry in the manipular legion system.
(10.65) Optional Rule: Legions Without Cavalry (Advanced
Game Only). If players want to stick even more closely with
history than 10.64 allows, they can agree to the following rule.
In Game-Turn IX and X (100-50 BCE inclusive), Roman Le-
gionary Cavalry do not exist. LG units have a straight BP value
of 5.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Rule 10.64 simulates the relatively poor
state of Legionary Cavalry during the early period covered by
Pax Romana. Rule 10.65 reflects the Legionary reforms insti-
tuted by Gaius Marius starting in roughly 100 BCE.
(10.66) Elephants. Certain players start with Elephants. Other-
wise, Elephants can be raised only if certain Provinces are con-
trolled. These are indicated with an (Eleph) on the Major Pow-
ers Income and Manpower Table. It costs 1T to buy 1 Elephant
unit.
(10.67) Elephants have no BP value. If an army containing el-
ephants enters into Battle, the player owning that army commits
as many as he wishes to the Battle (both players may do so if
both armies contain elephants), committing a specific number
before rolling for their effect. Then, prior to resolving the Battle,
he rolls 1d6 for each committed Elephant unit (he must roll for
all of them, even if he gets the result he wants with the very first
one), with the following possible die-roll results:
1: Negates the use of one enemy cavalry unit and eliminates 1
additional enemy BP. The enemy player chooses which units
to eliminate.
2: Negates the use of one enemy cavalry unit.
3: Negates the use of one enemy cavalry unit; eliminate the El-
ephant.
4: No Effect.
5: Eliminate the Elephant.
6: Elephants rampage. Eliminate 1 of your own BP plus the El-
ephant.
(10.68) Elephants may not be used (whether attacking or de-
fending) in any battle in which a Town, City or Mountain For-
tress has been factored into the BP total. Furthermore, Elephants
may not exist on their own in any Space (including in City or
Town spaces); if alone for any reason, they are eliminated.
(10.69) Elephants may not be used to absorb losses in Battle
(although they may be used for Attrition losses). However, if all
other units are eliminated, all elephants are also eliminated.
(10.7) SIEGE EXPERTISE
(10.71) Players may pay for Siege Expertise to assist with Battles
in which a City or Town is included in the Battle Point calcula-
tion. Before conducting the Battle, both players secretly note
the amount of Siege Expertise they are purchasing, revealing
that amount simultaneously and subtracting the amount imme-
diately from their respective Treasuries (both players pay what
they bid, even the loser). The player who spends the most gets
one Battle Die-Roll Shift in addition to any other Shifts to which
he may be entitled. If bid amounts are tied, do not bid again;
both players simply pay what they bid without gaining an ad-
vantage.
(10.72) Siege Expertise must be purchased separately for each
Battle, even if more than one Battle occurs against the same
City/Town, by the same Attacking army, in the same Activation.
(10.73) Siege Expertise may not be used by the Attacker in an
Amphibious Attack.
(10.8) REDUCING LEGIONS AND HEAVY
INFANTRY
(10.81) Legions can be reduced in combat. A LG can absorb up
to 2 BP of losses and be reduced (flip the counter to its Reduced
side). Reduced LG are worth 2 BP. A Reduced Legion can ab-

sorb up to another 2 BP of losses, at which point it is eliminated.
If an Army consisting of both full-strength and Reduced LG takes
1 or 2 BP of losses, and there are no other units available to
absorb the losses, the Reduced LG is eliminated.
EXAMPLE: An army consisting solely of 2 full-strength LG
fights a battle and suffers 1 BP of losses. One of the LG is Re-
duced, with the counter flipped over to its Reduced side. The
army fights another battle and takes another 1 BP of losses.
The Reduced LG is eliminated.
(10.82) Heavy Infantry (but not Mercenary HI units) can also be
reduced in combat. An HI unit can absorb up to 2 BP of losses
and be reduced (flip the counter to its Reduced side). A reduced
HI can absorb only one BP of losses, at which point it is elimi-
nated. If an Army consisting of both full-strength and Reduced
HI takes 1 BP of losses, and there are no other units available to
absorb the losses, the Reduced HI is eliminated.
(10.83) A full-strength LG or HI unit taking more than 2 BP of
losses is not Reduced; it is completely eliminated instead.
(10.84) It is not permissible to reduce 2 LG/HI in a single Battle
instead of eliminating a full LG/HI. For example, if a force con-
sisting of 5 HI takes losses requiring the elimination of 4 BP, it
may not reduce two HI units to satisfy the losses; it must elimi-
nate one full HI unit instead and reduce another HI.
(10.85) When taking losses because of Attrition (9.43 and 9.45),
reducing an LG or HI unit counts as eliminating one unit. Elimi-
nating it completely counts as two units.
(10.86) Reduced LG and HI can be rebuilt in three ways:
• At the instant two Reduced LG are in the same space, they
must combine into one full-strength LG. Similarly, at the in-
stant two Reduced HI are in the same space, they combine
into one full-strength HI. One of the counters is flipped to its
full-strength side; the other is removed from the map.
• During a Recruitment operation, Reduced LG or HI units may
be rebuilt, in place, to full-strength, at a cost of 1T each. Sim-
ply flip the rebuilt counter to its full-strength side. Isolated
reduced LG or HI may not be rebuilt unless they are in a con-
trolled province that is capable of recruiting LG or HI respec-
tively.
• During the Manpower Phase, Reduced LG and HI may be
rebuilt, where they are currently, at a cost of 1T each. If the
player chooses not to rebuild a reduced unit (or cannot re-
build it), it is replaced, in its current space, by a Garrison
unit (consider it disbanded in favor of settling the area). Iso-
lated reduced LG or HI may not be rebuilt unless they are in
a controlled province that is capable of recruiting LG or HI
respectively.
(10.87) Reduced Legions do not contribute to the Legionary
Cavalry component (10.64) of Roman Legions. In other words,
an Army of 1 full-strength LG and 1 Reduced LG units has no
cavalry component; similarly, an Army of 5 full-strength LG
and 1 Reduced LG has a contingent of 2 Cavalry units instead of
3. As soon as the Reduced LG is rebuilt, the two full-strength
LG once again have the Cavalry component available.
EXAMPLE: It’s Turn III and a Roman army consisting of 4 LG
is attacked. They therefore enter battle with 16 BP plus 2 Cav-
alry points. The Romans lose 1 BP, flipping one of the LG to its
Reduced side. They are attacked again and this time they have
14 BP and only 1 Cavalry point. Reducing the LG has deprived
the army of 2 BP and 1 of the cavalry points.
(10.9) RETREATING AND REGROUPING
(10.91) Voluntary Retreats. If the Defending force loses a Battle
and has not used a City or Town in its defense, it has the option
of retreating retreat one or two spaces by Land, or one space by
Sea. The retreating force reduces his opponent’s Battle Die-Roll
by one (–1 or 10%), for the purpose of calculating defender losses
(whether it retreats one or two spaces).
PLAY NOTE: Remember, the Loser is defined as the force which
took the higher percentage of losses, as calculated before de-
ciding on retreats.
(10.92) Forced Retreats. If the Attacker wins the Battle, he may
force the Defending Army to retreat (unless the Defender used a
Town or City in the defense), as long as he has at least 1 MP
remaining. He spends that movement point, and the Defending
Army must retreat as if he had done so voluntarily (including
reducing his losses by 10%). The Attacker now occupies the
Battle Space. Note that forced retreats may not be used against
forces that are not allowed to retreat (such as Tribal units and
most Barbarian forces, etc., as their specific rules state), nor
against defenders who used a City/Town in the Battle.
(10.93) The Attacking force may never use retreat, even if it
loses the Battle. However, see 10.97. Remember that Intercept-
ing forces are the Attacker.
(10.94) Retreats By Land. Defending forces retreat by Land as
follows:
• The retreating force must move into a connected Land Space,
no more than two spaces from the Battle Space, that contains
no enemy (or neutral, tribal, or barbarian) Land Units. It may
not move into or through spaces with non-friendly Land Units,
Garrisons, Towns, or Cities; if it has no choice, it is elimi-
nated completely (and the Leader is considered dead). In a
two-space retreat, the force may not end up in a space directly
connected to the Battle space.
• The retreating force may not retreat through or into the space
from which the Attacking army entered the Battle space.
• If a force does not have a retreat path, it may not use Volun-
tary Retreat (10.91).
• If a force is forced to retreat (10.92) but cannot do so, it is
eliminated.
Front
Reduced side
Back

• If the Defending force retreats, all units in that force must
retreat, and all units in the retreating force must stay together
during the retreat.
(10.95) Retreats by Sea. Land forces may retreat by Sea if all
the following circumstances apply (these same rules apply to
land forces conducting pre-battle Withdrawal):
• the battle takes place in a port
• the retreating player has at least one Galley Squadron in that
Port
• the Retreat is to a friendly-controlled Port only 1 Naval Move-
ment Space away. The army takes the Galley Squadron(s)
with it.
(10.96) Other Retreat Considerations:
• If the Winning force used Cavalry Superiority or Cavalry Su-
premacy in the Battle, it may (not must) try to prevent the
Loser from retreating. The Winner rolls a die. On a result of
“1” in the case of Cavalry Superiority, or a result of “3 or less”
in the case of Cavalry Supremacy, the Loser may not retreat
(and suffers full losses as a result).
• A retreating force may be intercepted by a force (but not the
force it just fought) if its retreat takes it into a space where
Interception is possible (see 10.3). The interception occurs after
the retreating force has taken its losses from battle.
• If a force uses a City or Town as part of its defense (7.3), it
may not retreat as part of that specific combat. During any
subsequent combat, it may choose not to use the City/Town,
in which case the retreat option is again available. Exception:
A force capable of withdrawing or retreating by sea (see 10.95)
may use the City or Town as part of the defense and still re-
treat.
• A force using Land Transit Points to reach its retreat destina-
tion may retreat through any number of such points, but only
to the first Land Space beyond. After the destination is reached,
total the number of Transit Points used for the retreat; the force
loses additional Battle Points equal to the total.
PLAY NOTE: Unlike many wargames, there is no free “advance
after combat” in Pax Romana.
(10.97) Regrouping. After the Battle is fully resolved, if the
Defending army did not retreat or is not destroyed, the Attack-
ing force is placed back on (not moved to) the space from which
it entered the Battle Space. If that Space is a Land Transit Point,
the regrouping army is placed there only if it has enough MP
remaining to reach a Land Space. If it does not, it is placed on
the last Land Space it was in before the battle. A Regrouping
force may not be intercepted when placed back on its original
space (or a transit point), but it may be intercepted if it re-enters
the original Battle space. Regrouping is not considered a retreat.
DESIGN NOTE: As with many other aspects of Pax Romana,
it is important to keep in mind the scope and scale of the game
when learning how the system functions. Battles are not indi-
vidual battles; they are full campaigns. When a defender is
not dislodged from a space, it means that, after a series of
battles, they managed to hold onto the area, even though they
might have lost the battle in game terms. The attacking army
does not retreat, it simply reorganizes for another campaign
against that enemy.
(11.0) NAVAL OPERATIONS
Naval operations are simple, but their effects can be dramatic.
Galley squadrons can block naval transport and the crossing of
straits, and players can often move armies by sea far more
quickly than by land. Maintaining galley squadrons is expen-
sive, but in most cases they’re well worth the cost from a stra-
tegic perspective.
(11.1) NAVAL MOVEMENT
(11.11) Naval movement—movement of a fleet of galley squad-
rons, as well as transporting land units (11.1-11.3)—uses the
Sea Connections between Ports and Naval Transit Points. Un-
like land units, galley squadrons traveling by themselves do not
have or use Movement Points; they have unlimited movement
EXAMPLE OF TRANSPORT: The Greek player controls all
his home Spaces. He also controls Syracuse (East Sicily).
He wants to send an Army by sea from Pella (Macedonia) to
Agrigentum (West Sicily). The Army has a 1-3 Leader. The
Player rolls 1d6 for MPs and gets a 3; adding this to the
Leader’s Campaign Rating gives him 6 MP. He moves the
Army 1 MP to Dyrrhachium on Macedonia’s west coast and
spends 1 MP to embark for Transport. Now, at the cost of 1
single MP for the entire trip, he sails the Army south along
the Greek coast and west to Syracuse in East Sicily, passing
through Corcyra, Actium, Patrae, Gythium, and the Deep
Sea Transit Point between Gythium and Syracuse (he luck-
ily escapes damage on the DSTP). He spends 1 MP to de-
bark the Army at Syracuse and a final 1 MP to march by
land one Space west to Agrigentum. Total MP cost: 5 MP. If
there had been an enemy force in Agrigentum, he would have
had enough MP (he would need 6 in total) to enter the Space
and attack.

Capability, restricted only by Continuity (11.13). Naval trans-
port operations do use Movement Points, however (11.3).
PLAY NOTE: A Fleet is defined as all of a player’s Squadrons
in one Space or moving together, or as all the Squadrons and
land forces participating in a Naval Transport operation.
(11.12) Stopping. A Fleet must Stop when:
• it enters an enemy-occupied Port, whether the enemy occupa-
tion is naval or land. If there is an enemy Fleet in that Space
there may be a Naval battle.
• it enters an unoccupied Port space not in its Home Territory.
• it enters a non-friendly Port space to debark transported Land
Units (i.e., the Port was non-friendly as the force arrived at it).
• a Naval Disaster die-roll other than No Effect forces it to Stop
upon entering a Naval Transit Point or a Deep Sea Transit
Point.
• the player wishes to do so for any other reason.
PLAY NOTE: Remember, unoccupied ports in a controlled non-
Home province are not friendly.
(11.13) Continuity: Once a Fleet has Stopped, to see if it may
move again that Phase, the player rolls 2d6.
• If the diceroll is a 2-7, the Fleet may Continue to move.
• If the diceroll is a 8-12, the Fleet is Finished and may move no
further.
(11.14) When rolling for Continuity, the following DRM apply.
• Fleet has Leader with it: –1
• Enemy Fleet withdraws before battle (11.42): +1
• Fleet wins a battle (11.44): +2
(11.15) If a Fleet stops in a non-friendly Port or on a small circle
Naval Transit Point, it must move to a friendly Port by the end
of the Game-Turn or it is eliminated in the Attrition Phase. Fur-
thermore, if a Naval Transport fleet Stops in a non-friendly Port
Space because it failed the Continuity roll, the transports Land
units must debark in that Space, and it must attack that Space
via Amphibious Attack) if the Space is occupied by non-friendly
units. See 11.33 and 11.34.
(11.16) A Fleet that enters an enemy-controlled Port does not
have to Stop if the enemy player allows the phasing player’s
Fleet to keep moving.
(11.17) A Fleet, or a Leader moving by himself, does not have to
Stop to pick up Squadrons in controlled ports. Nor does it cost
MP to do so.
(11.18) Fleets that Lose a Naval battle may not move any more
that Phase, after Withdrawing.
(11.19) Naval movement may never be intercepted (but see
10.36). However, in the Advanced Game, play of the Naval
Ambush card is similar to interception.
(11.2) NAVAL DISASTER
(11.21) Whenever a Fleet or Transport enters a Naval Transit
Point, the player must check to see if anything untoward hap-
pens by rolling one die (1d6):
• If it is a small circle NTP, and the DR is a ‘6’, the Fleet is
Blown Off Course and must immediately Stop; it may roll to
continue (11.13). If it fails, it is Finished, and stays in the NTP.
• If it is a large circle Deep Sea NTP:
Example of Amphibious Attack: Having captured Lilybaeum
(West Sicily), Rome decides to launch an amphibious inva-
sion against the Carthaginian force in Thapsus (Africa).
He has an Army in Lilybaeum led by a 2-3 Leader, and two
Galley Squadrons as well. He rolls 3 for Movement, so he
has 6 MP. He embarks his Army in Lilybaeum for Trans-
port and, taking both Galley Squadrons along for escort,
sails to a neutral Melita via the NTP in between (rolling a
3 at the NTP, resulting in no effect). Because he does not
have a land unit in Melita and it is not in his Home Terri-
tory, he must Stop there and roll 2d6 for Continuity. He
rolls an 8, modified to a 7 because he has a Leader, so he
may Continue (at no extra cost in MP) and he sails to
Thapsus. The operation has cost the following: 1 MP to
embark 1 MP to sail, 1 MP to debark, and 1 MP to attack
(he has no choice but to attack). The Transport and Attack
have cost him 4 of his 6 MP, so he has enough to get to a
debarkation space after the assault (otherwise he could
not make this move at all). The Carthaginian player gains
two Battle Die-Roll Shifts from the Amphibious Attack.
Assuming the Roman player wins the battle, he can spend
one of his last two MP to force the Carthaginian force to
retreat, thereby succeeding at his invasion. If the Carthagin-
ians win the battle, though, the Roman player would have
had to sail to a debarkation space (probably Melita or
Lilybaeum), because with only 2 MP remaining, he would
not have had enough MP to attack again (2 MP) and sail
away if he did not take the Battle Space.

◊and the dieroll is a 3 or 4, the Fleet is Blown Off Course and
must immediately Stop; it may roll to continue (see 11.13).
◊and the dieroll is a 5 or 6, the Fleet is struck by a disastrous
Storm and must Stop. In addition, roll one die; that dieroll
equals the number of War Galley Squadrons eliminated AND
the number of Battle Points worth of Land units eliminated.
In the case of Naval Transport, if the die-roll calls for more
Galley Squadrons to be eliminated than are actually present,
the transported Army is eliminated completely.
• A Fleet may Finish on a standard NTP (but see 11.15), but not
on a Deep Sea NTP. If it stops in a Deep Sea NTP and fails its
Continuity roll, it is eliminated.
(11.22) If a Fleet or Transport begins an Activation on an NTP
(because it Finished the last Activation there), the following hap-
pens:
• If it is a Fleet of Galley Squadrons only, it simply moves where
it wishes, subject to the naval movement rules.
• If it is a fleet conducting Naval Transport, it conducts Naval
Transport normally, except that it does not spend 1 MP to
embark.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Given the way galleys were constructed
with their narrow, shallow holds, ‘at sea’ range was severely
restricted and most movement was along coasts and between
Ports. To cross the open sea was to invite disaster, as happened
several times (at least) during this era. Cf. Roman fleets in the
1st Punic War.
(11.3) NAVAL TRANSPORT
(11.31) Land units do not need galley squadrons to move by sea.
They simply move as if they were a naval unit, as above. How-
ever, without a galley escort, if attacked by enemy Fleets they
are automatically eliminated. They are also subject to Naval
Disasters (11.21). Land units pay 1 MP to embark on naval Trans-
port, 1 MP to sail (any distance), and 1 MP to debark (but see
11.33). They may combine Naval Movement with Land Move-
ment. They may also use Naval Transport more than once dur-
ing an Activation (although they will rarely have enough MP to
do so).
(11.32) Naval Transport Considerations:
• A force may not embark for naval transport unless it has enough
MP to debark at some point during its movement. If the path
to its destination takes it through a Space occupied by non-
friendly Land Units, it must have enough MP to conduct an
Amphibious Attack (11.33) or it may not embark.
• Leader-led Fleets consisting solely of Galley Squadrons may
pick up land units in a Port and keep moving without rolling
for Continuity. However, as soon as the first land unit is picked
up, the operation becomes Naval Transport; roll for the
Leader’s MP as if it were normal Land Movement, subtract-
ing one (–1) from the result to account for Naval Movement
already conducted.
• Armies being naval transported who wish to pick up land units
enroute to their debarkation hex may do so at a cost of 1 MP;
they do not have to debark and re-embark, nor do they need to
roll for Continuity. Galley squadrons may be picked up at no
MP cost and no need for a Continuity roll.
• Armies being naval transported who wish to drop off indi-
vidual units enroute to their debarkation hex may do so with-
out Stopping and at no cost in MP. However, they may not
drop off units in enemy-occupied spaces (even just Garrison
units) without debarking. Also, dropping off more than one
unit in a space constitutes debarkation and costs 1 MP.
• If a Naval Transport fleet Stops in a non-friendly Port Space
because it fails its Continuity roll, the Land units being trans-
ported must debark in that Space (and see 11.34). If there are
non-friendly units in that Space, the transported force must
conduct an Amphibious Attack (unless the transport force con-
sists of no Land Units—only a Garrison, for example—in
which case it is eliminated). The transported Land units may
continue moving and may even conduct other Naval Trans-
port missions in the same Activation, if they have the MP to
do so. They may even conduct another Naval Transport mis-
sion using the stopped Galley Squadrons (if any were in the
Fleet) as escorts (thereby allowing those GS to move more
than once in the Activation).
PLAY NOTE: The third bullet point allows Armies undergoing
Naval Transport to pick up additional Land Units in friendly
ports along the way without the need to debark first and then
re-embark, and without the need to roll for Continuation each
time.
(11.33) Amphibious Attacks: The only way for transported Land
units to debark in a non-friendly occupied Land Space is to con-
duct an Amphibious Attack. Amphibious Attacks are conducted
exactly like all other Land Battles (10.5), including the possible
use of Pre-Battle Withdrawal, except that
• the Defender receives two (2) Battle Die-Roll Shifts
• the Attacker may not use cavalry or elephants (the Defender
may do so unless using a City/Town for defense)
• If the Defender does retreat (voluntarily or by force), the At-
tacker is considered debarked in the Battle Space.
(11.34) The goal of an Amphibious Attack is to conclude the
battle in occupation of the Battle space. However, an Amphibi-
ous Attack may be conducted only if the Active force has enough
Movement Points to debark elsewhere under the assumption that
it fails to occupy the Battle Space (but without worrying about
Stopping on Naval or Deep Sea Transit Points). In other words,
the force must have enough MP to guarantee a landing, some-
where, without fighting a land battle. If it does not, it may not
attempt the Amphibious Attack.
PLAY NOTE: If a player conducts an Amphibious Attack and
then discovers he does not have enough MP to meet the re-
quirements of 11.34, roll things back so that the entire amphibi-
ous exercise did not take place.
(11.35) Regrouping after Amphibious Attacks: If the Defender
does not retreat after an Amphibious Attack, the Attacker may
immediately spend 2 MP to attack again (and continue doing so

as long as he has sufficient MP). However, at all times during
these attacks the restrictions of 11.34 apply.
Play Note: If a player conducts an Amphibious Attack and then
discovers he does not have enough MP to meet the require-
ments of 11.34, roll things back so that the entire amphibious
exercise did not take place. There are no amphibious “suicide
missions” in Pax Romana. What this means, of course, is that
Amphibious Attacks must be carefully planned, and that all play-
ers should watch to make sure they’re legal.
(11.36) If a naval transport stops at a Land Space occupied by
non-friendly land units and simply intends to move past that
space, it may do so if it makes a successful Continuation roll. If
it fails that roll, it automatically performs an amphibious attack.
However, the transported units may not even attempt to move
past a non-friendly-occupied Land Space if it does not have
enough Movement Points to conduct an amphibious attack.
(11.37) Neither cavalry, elephants, nor Siege Expertise may be
used by the Attacker in an amphibious attack.
(11.38) If a Naval Transport debarks in an unoccupied space and
is immediately intercepted by an enemy force, the Battle Die-
Roll Shift for Amphibious Attacks does not apply.
DESIGN NOTE. When accompanying a transport of troops, a
galley is acting in a defensive mode…a different usage than
when moving alone, which is an aggressive move. As such, it is
more susceptible to stoppage in the latter usage than in the
former, where it has different duties to perform. The bottom line
is, you must plan the usage of your Naval Transport and Am-
phibious Attack missions well, giving your units “support” in
the form of MP.
(11.4) NAVAL BATTLES
(11.41) Initiating Naval Battles. Any time a Fleet enters a Port
Space or Naval Transit Point occupied by an enemy Fleet, a na-
val battle may occur, depending on whether the latter fleet
chooses to fight or withdraw (see 11.46 for what happens to
Transports entering such spaces). Either way, after the With-
drawal or the Battle the moving Fleet or Transport must Stop
and must roll for Continuity (11.13), unless the non-moving
player “allows” the moving Fleet to pass through, in which case
Movement does not Stop.
(11.42) Withdrawing from Naval Battles: When a moving Fleet
enters a Space/Point occupied by an enemy Fleet, the latter may
Withdraw into any Port that is three or fewer connected Spaces
distant as long as no intervening Port, or the destination Port
itself, is occupied by another player’s Fleet (unless that player
grants permission to do so). It must follow all naval movement
rules during Withdrawal, including rolling for Naval Disaster in
Transit Points and rolling for Continuity in non-friendly spaces.
In addition, if the result of any Continuity roll during Withdrawal
is a “12”, the fleet may not Withdraw again during the current
Activation. If the fleet cannot (or decides not to) Withdraw, com-
bat ensues. Enemy Withdrawal adds +1 DR to a Continuity dieroll
by the active Moving Fleet (11.14).
(11.43) Resolving Naval Battles. To resolve a naval battle each
player totals his Squadrons’ Battle Points; each Squadron is worth
2 BP. Additional BP are earned as follows:
• Presence of Leader. If there is one with the Fleet, +1BP.
• Add the roll of one die (1d6) to the total BP.
PLAY NOTE: Cities and Towns do not provide any Defensive
benefits of any kind.
(11.44) The Player with the higher total wins, with the following
effects:
• The losing player eliminates Galley Squadrons equal to the
difference in BP, with each Squadron worth 2 BP. Round up
any fractions.
• Any remaining Losing squadrons are retreated to the nearest
friendly Port.
• The winning player rolls one die. If it is even, he suffers no
losses. If it is odd, he loses 1 Squadron.
(11.45) Draws. If the adjusted BPs of both players are the same,
there is no winner. Both Fleets lose nothing and remain in the
Space. The Active Fleet must roll for Continuity (with no DRM)
to move or attack again. However, if it does move, the non-Ac-
tive player has the option to attack it before it leaves the Space,
using the above combat rules. The Active Fleet may instead at-
tack again, and in fact may continue to do so until it fails a Con-
tinuity roll.
(11.46) Transported Armies in Naval Battles. Armies being
transported have no effect on a Naval Battle, but they can suffer
the effects thereof.
• If they are involved in a Naval Battle and they do not have a
Galley Squadron escort, all land units are automatically elimi-
nated (they may not Withdraw).
• If they do have a Galley Squadron escort and they are involved
in a Naval Battle and do not Withdraw, Land BP are elimi-
nated equal to Galley Squadron BP so lost. Example: Fleet
loses 2 Galley Squadrons (equal to 4 BP); it also loses 4 BP
worth of land units.
• If the entire Galley Squadron escort is destroyed, all trans-
ported land units are lost.
(11.47) Other than as noted in 11.46, Fleets have no effect on
Armies, and vice versa, in terms of battles. A Fleet consisting
solely of Galley Squadrons may freely enter a Port space con-
taining an enemy Army—although it will have to roll for Con-
tinuation if it wishes to move further, and if it remains in the
enemy-occupied space it will be eliminated in the Isolation Phase.
(11.48) Re-rolls (10.55) are not possible for naval battles.

PART D: OTHER UNITS
12.0 SPECIAL UNITS
12.1 Garrisons
12.2 Mercenaries (Advanced Game Only)
12.3 Militia
12.4 The Soldier Of Fortune
12.5 Independents
12.6 Pirates
13.0 BARBARIANS
13.1 Tribes
13.2 Barbarian Infantry
13.3 Rebellions (Advanced Game Only)
13.4 Barbarian Invasions (Advanced Game Only)
(12.0) SPECIAL UNITS
(12.1) GARRISONS
(12.11) Garrisons are not combat units. However, they function
in the same way as Land combat units, with the following ex-
ceptions:
• They have no BP Strength. If attacked while alone in a Space,
they are automatically eliminated with no loss by the Attacker
(but the Attacker must pay the usual +1 MP to enter the
garrison’s Space). Garrisons on their own may not Withdraw.
• They may not be used to satisfy losses. If stacked with a
friendly Army that must Retreat as a battle result, they retreat
with the Army.
• An enemy army using Withdrawal may move through a Garri-
son-controlled space by spending one (1) of its Withdrawal MP
to do so; it does not eliminate the garrison, nor may it do so.
(12.12) Garrisons control the spaces they occupy.
(12.13) Garrisons may move individually (as a Minor Move) or
as part of an Army. They may not end Movement in a Mountain
Fortress unless stacked with an Army.
(12.14) Creating Garrisons. A player may create Garrisons
• during a Major Move, by breaking down a regular land unit
stacked with an Army; the unit breakdown costs the army 1
Movement Point (even if breaking down more than one unit),
with the number of garrisons determined by the formula in
12.16. The original units are replaced with the garrison units.
The newly created Garrison may move or be converted into a
Town in the immediately following Minor Move if so desired
(or during any later Minor Move).
• during a Minor Move, by breaking down a regular land unit
according to the formula in 12.16. Breaking down a unit into
garrisons consumes the entire Minor Move; the garrisons may
not move further, nor may they be converted into Towns dur-
ing that Activation.
• by refusing to, or being unable to, rebuild reduced-strength
HI and LG units during the Manpower Phase – see 10.86.
(12.15) Garrisons may never be created without breaking down
an infantry unit (in other words, you can’t just create them from
scratch).
(12.16) Garrison breakdown uses the following formula. Garri-
sons may not be returned to LI/HI/LG status.
1 full-strength LG or HI = 3 Garrison units
1 LI = 2 Garrison units
1 reduced-strength LG or HI = 1 Garrison unit
(12.17) Neither Mercenaries nor Militia units may be used to
create Garrisons.
(12.18) When determining who controls a Space, Garrisons are
treated as regular Land Units, but they have no Battle Point value.
EXAMPLE OF CREATING GARRISONS: A newly activated
Greek army moves to an unoccupied Venusia (in southern Italy).
It drops a Light Infantry unit there (at no MP cost) and moves
on. After the army finishes its Move, the Greek player uses his
first Minor Move to break the LI into 2 Garrison units.
(12.2) MERCENARIES
(12.21) Hiring Mercenaries (Standard Game). A player may
hire Mercenaries. He may do this in either the Manpower Phase
or as one of his two Minor Moves in the Activation Phase. Ex-
ception: The Roman Player may never hire mercenaries.
Mercenaries:
• Are always HI
• Are raised and placed only in non-Home provinces controlled
by that player, or with a friendly force or unit regardless of
their location
• Cost 2T for each unit
• Are always removed in the Removal Phase of the Game-Turn
following their appearance, regardless of where they are. Ex-
ample: if placed during Game-Turn 2, they are removed in the
Removal Phase of Game-Turn 3.
(12.22) Mercenary Considerations (Both Game). Mercenary
units count against ManMax limits—see 6.42. They may never
be used to create garrisons. They are part of a player’s armed
forces, so they do grant Control. They also affect Sack and Plun-
der; see 7.52.
(12.23) Hiring Mercenaries (Advanced Game). A player may
hire Mercenaries through the play of a card, or (in the case of
Carthage) through the play of any “Hold in Hand” card. See
12.24 for details.
When raising Mercenaries, a player must spend 2T (and may
spend no more). That 2T buys:
• 2 Mercenary LI, or
• 1 Mercenary Cav, or
• 1 Mercenary HI (note that Mercenary HI may not be reduced
– see 10.82)

(12.24) Mercenary Considerations (Advanced Game Only).
Mercenaries are Land Units a player may hire for the remainder
of a Game-Turn. They are available only by play of a Mercenar-
ies Card, with two exceptions:
• Rome may never hire Mercenaries.
• Carthage may also hire Mercenaries by playing any “Hold in
Hand” card (but not “Play When Drawn” cards) for the pur-
pose of raising Mercenaries. The actual event for that card is
ignored, and Carthage pays for them as per 12.22 or 12.23.
PLAY NOTE: Yes, this is correct. The Carthaginian player may
play ANY “Hold in Hand” card and ignore what’s on the card
in favor of buying Mercenaries. The Event Card simply goes
onto the Discard pile. He may not use “Play When Drawn”
cards for this purpose.
(12.25) Mercenary Placement (Both Games). Mercenary units
may be placed in any Space in any controlled province, or with
any of the Player’s existing units or armies whether or not in a
controlled province. When more than one Mercenary unit is hired
(2 Mercenary LI, for instance), they may be placed together or
split up however the player chooses.
(12.26) Mercenary Use (Both Games). Mercenary units may
never be used to create Garrisons or Cities, and they may not be
controlled by allied minor powers (Pergamum or Pontus, for
example) or the Soldier of Fortune leader, but otherwise they
perform precisely like any other unit under the owning Player’s
command. They control the Spaces they occupy, and they count
as regular units for the purpose of establishing control of Prov-
inces and Territories. Mercenary HI count against ManMax lim-
its (6.2), and Mercenaries affect Sack and Plunder (7.52).
(12.27) Mercenary Removal (Advanced Game Only). Mer-
cenary Infantry are always removed in the Removal Phase (Phase
C), regardless of where they are. Mercenary Cavalry are not re-
moved, but instead are changed into Regular Cavalry.
(12.3) MILITIA
(12.31) Raising Militia. Each time a Player loses a land Battle
in his Home Territory in which he loses Battle Points from com-
bat units other than Militia units themselves, or in which a City
has been attacked and its defense strength lowered to 3 BP, im-
mediately following the resolution of that Battle and before any-
thing else occurs, the Losing player may make an immediate
call for additional Land Units. This emergency levy calls up
Militia units.
(12.32) Militia units operate as follows:
• Each Militia unit is a 1 BP infantry
• Militia may never leave, even temporarily, their Home Terri-
tory.
• Militia may be raised only once per Activation, but quite pos-
sibly during multiple Activations in a single Game-Turn (if
the player keeps losing battles in his home territory).
• Every time a player raises Militia, his Stability level decreases
by one (–1).
• All Militia are removed in the Removal Phase of the Game-
Turn following their appearance.
(12.33) To raise Militia, roll 1d6 and halve the number (round-
ing up). The result is the number of Militia units raised (but see
12.34). These may be placed in one or more Spaces unoccupied
by enemy units in the Home Territory. Each Militia unit is worth
1 BP.
(12.34) The number of Militia raised is subject to the player’s
current Stability Level:
• If the rolling player’s Stability range is Stable, use the result
in 12.33.
• If the rolling player’s Stability range is Unrest, lower the num-
ber of Militia raised in 12.33 by one (–1). For example, a roll
of 5, which would normally result in three militia units, now
results in only two. If this –1 reduction results in 0 Militia
being raised, then the player suffers the –1 Stability penalty
nevertheless.
• If the rolling player’s Stability range is Turmoil, Militia may
not be raised at all.
PLAY NOTE (Advanced Game Only): There is a card that al-
lows players to raise militia without having to lose a battle; see
17.2.
(12.4) THE SOLDIER OF FORTUNE
(12.41) The Soldier of Fortune event allows a player to use an
extra army to wreak havoc on the plans of other players. Soldier
of Fortune armies do not give Control to any Player; they deny
control of the Space they are in to players. Exception: When
played by the Roman player, this card is treated differently (see
12.47).
(12.42) When the SoF event occurs, the player:
• places the SoF units as per 12.43.
• may (not must) move the SoF and his Army as his Major Move.
• gets his normal Minor Moves even if he moves the SoF force
for his Major Move.
• may use the SoF forces as if they were his own (but see 12.44)
during any of his Activations for the remainder of the Game-
Turn (including the current Activation).
• removes the SoF forces in the Removal Phase of the next
Game-Turn.
(12.43) The player receives
• The SoF 3-4 Leader
• 4 HI, 2 LI, 1 Cav, 1 Elephant.
He places them anywhere in his Home Territory.
PLAY NOTE: Several scenarios begin with the Soldier of For-
tune already in play (historically, Pyrrhus of Epirus).
(12.44) The SoF force is treated like one of the player’s armies,
except that it may not pick up any of his (Home) land units or
attack with them. It may move through the player’s land units
without stopping, and it may stack with them; if the stack is

attacked, all units defend. If it loses a battle, it may retreat or be
forced to retreat. There are no Soldier of Fortune galleys, but the
player may provide a 1 galley squadron escort (maximum), if
the Soldier of Fortune army wants to move by sea.
(12.45) Cities or Towns captured by the SoF’s Army become the
property of the SoF player; the City/Town marker is replaced by
one of that player’s City/Town markers, not by an Independent
City/Town marker. Whenever a battle fought by the SoF’s Army
results in the destruction of a Town or reduction of a City, the
SoF player decides normally whether or not to roll for Sack and
Plunder (see 7.5).
(12.46) The SoF and his Army are automatically removed in the
Removal Phase of the next Game-Turn.
(12.47) The Roman player never gets the SoF or his army. In the
Standard Game, if he rolls the SoF event, he rolls for a differ-
ent event instead. In the Advanced Game, if he gets the SoF
card, he may hold onto it to ensure that no other player receives
it. Alternatively, he may play the card in order to bring a Dicta-
tor into play, if (and only if) there is any enemy army in any
Space in his Home Territory at the time the card is played. When
a Dictator is declared, the Roman Player removes from the board
one of his Leaders (his choice) and places it in his Leader Pool.
He then blindly draws three Leaders from his Leader Pool. He
may place one of these three (his choice) in Rome as the Re-
placement for the removed Leader. The other two are returned
to The Pool.
DESIGN NOTE: Rome simply didn’t hire mercenaries of the
Soldier of Fortune kind.
(12.5) INDEPENDENTS
Independent Land units arise either from the initial deployment—
Pergamum, Rhodes, Syracuse, and the Mamertines—or as the
result of play of a card (Pontus).
Independents must be attacked if a player moves forces into their
spaces, unless otherwise specified below (Rhodes, for example),
or unless the player has an Alliance with them. For example, if a
player moves a fleet to the Syracuse space, it must attack the
Syracusan fleet.
A player who controls a galley squadron belonging to an Inde-
pendent does not have to pay Maintenance for it (6.4).
(12.51) Rhodes
Standard Game. Rhodes has a well-defended island and a large
navy. The use of the navy (only) is available to the player who
controls Rhodes. A player controlling Rhodes starts each Game-
Turn with 2 Rhodian War Galley Squadrons in Rhodes, regard-
less of what happened the previous Game-Turn. Players control
Rhodes by occupying it.
Advanced Game. The use of the navy (only) is available to the
player who plays the Rhodes Alliance card. At that point, that
player now controls Rhodes’ galley Fleet, which may be com-
bined with another Fleet. That alliance remains in place until the
Rhodes Alliance card is played by another player. See 17.2.
Both Games. Players may conduct Naval Movement (includ-
ing Naval Transport) through Rhodes freely (and without hav-
ing to Stop), unless Rhodes is controlled by another player (in
which case Rhodes is treated like any other player-controlled
Port). However, a player undertaking any Naval Movement into
or through a neutral or allied Rhodes must pay 1T, deducting the
1T from his own Treasury or, if Rhodes is allied, giving 1T to
the allied player. If the player conducting Naval Movement
chooses not to pay the money, his Fleet is Stopped and may not
move past the Rhodes space even with a successful Continuity
roll or in a subsequent Activation (although it may move away
from Rhodes in those two cases), unless it attacks and destroys
(or retreats in the case of a player’s Galley Squadrons) any Rhod-
ian or Rhodian-allied Galley Squadrons in the Rhodes space.
If attacked, Rhodes’ Land Units never Retreat, voluntarily or by
force. Nor do Its Galley Squadrons ever withdraw or retreat (un-
less Rhodes is allied with a player); if a player attacks and wins
a Naval Battle against the Rhodian GS, it treats the result as a
Draw (11.44) and proceeds accordingly.
(12.52) The Mamertines
This group of disgruntled Campanians controls Messana at the
start of the 1st Game-Turn (300-275 BCE and historically, lead-
ing to the 1st Punic War). No one controls or moves the
Mamertines; they will not Withdraw or Retreat (voluntarily or
by force). Their sole fate is elimination.
(12.53) Syracuse
Syracuse is an independent City, with an army and a fleet. While
her days of glory – 4th century BCE – are past, she is still a
power. Her units do not move while she is independent. How-
ever, a Power who captures the Syracuse space (the only way is
to capture the City) gains control over any Fleets that remain.
Those Fleets are replaced by Fleet counters belonging to the
capturing player and are subject to the normal Galley Mainte-
nance rules. Until Syracuse is captured, Syracusan units never
Retreat (voluntarily or by force).
(12.54) Pergamum (Advanced Game Only)
This important “secondary” power controls most of what the
map shows as Ionia. She is a deployed independent that main-
tains that status until all Pergamene units have been removed
from play. Players may use Pergamum as an ally by playing the
Alliance with Pergamum card. card (see 17.0 for details on what
happens). Unless such an Alliance is in place, Pergamene units
just sit in place and defend without retreating (either voluntarily
or by forces).
HISTORICAL NOTE: In 133 BCE, Attalus III of Pergamum
actually bequeathed his kingdom to Rome. We don’t anticipate
anyone doing so in this game—but if it happens, be sure to let
us know.
(12.55) Pontus (Advanced Game Only)
The pseudo-Macedonian kingdom of Pontus, and its Mithridatic
rulers, proved a major thorn in Rome’s side for a length of time
equivalent to about one turn of game play. The Pontines enter
the game through the play of the Pontus Card.

When the Pontus card is played, the Independent Power, Pon-
tus, is activated on behalf of the player playing the card, but
only if there is at least one unoccupied Space in Pontus. That
Player is now The Pontus Player (in addition to his other power).
When activated, the following units are placed in any unoccu-
pied Space(s) in Pontus, at the discretion of the Pontus Player:
• 4 HI
• 2 LI
• 1 Cav
• 1 Galley Squadron (placed only if a Port is open).
Note that there are no actual Pontus counters in the game; use
any available neutral markers (Egypt, for example) and place a
control marker of the owning player atop the stack.
The Pontus AM is immediately placed into The Pool.
When the Pontus AM is drawn, the Pontus Player takes com-
mand of the Pontine units only. He does not spend 1T for the
Activation, nor does he pull an Event Card. He gets both a Ma-
jor Move and two Minor Moves, but only Pontine units may
participate in these moves. Pontus may not raise Land Units,
and it may not stack with the Player’s regular Land Units or use
its galleys. Pontine units may Retreat and may be forced to Re-
treat.
Pontus is an Independent; her presence gives no player Control
over anything, except on behalf of Pontus. Pontus, in essence,
denies control to other players.
Pontus remains in the game until her last combat unit is elimi-
nated. The Pontines have no leaders; the line of Mithridates who
ruled were, essentially, 0-0 types. As long as there is a Pontine
combat unit on the map, though, the Pontus AM goes into The
Pool.
HISTORICAL NOTE: In the words of historian Peter Green,
“The early kings of Pontus resemble nothing so much as a fam-
ily of escaped convicts ... Mithridates IV [has the profile] of a
skid-row alcoholic. “ Then again, how many people of this era
have a Mozart opera in their honor?
(12.6) PIRATES
(12.61) Pirates are a function of the play of a Pirates event (Stan-
dard Game Only) or a Pirates card (Advanced Game Only), at
which point a Pirates counter is placed in one of the following:
• any Naval Transit Point (but not a Deep Sea Transit Point),
but not if a Galley Squadron already occupies that NTP
• an uncontrolled Port not within 1 Naval Space of Rhodes, but
not if a Galley Squadron already occupies that port
• Tarsus (Cilicia/Asia), if that Port is not occupied by a player’s
Galley Squadron.
(12.62) Pirates block Lines of Communication (as per 6.15), as
LOC may not be traced through a Pirate-occupied NTP. In addi-
tion, a Fleet moving into a Pirate-occupied NTP must Attack
those Pirates, otherwise it may not enter that NTP.
(12.63) Pirates remain in place until a player’s Fleet moves into
that Pirate-occupied Transit Point/Port (or activates while already
in a pirate-occupied space) and defeats the pirates. To defeat
them, the moving player rolls one die (1d6), to which he adds
the BP strength of the galley squadrons in that Fleet, plus one
(+1) if the fleet has a leader.
• If the adjusted DR is a ‘6’ or higher, remove the Pirate counter.
The Fleet may check for Continuity, as if it had won a battle.
• If the Fleet does not defeat the Pirates, it must Withdraw to
the last Port it passed through and is Finished for that Move.
(12.64) The Cilician Pirates. These scourges of eastern Medi-
terranean shipping are somewhat different from your run-of-the-
mill barbarians. When brought into play, they block LOC for
one Naval Space/Point in all directions from Tarsus that are not
occupied by friendly galley squadrons. In addition, when roll-
ing to eliminate the Cilician Pirates, subtract one (–1) from the
player’s dieroll.
(12.7) SLAVE ARMIES
(12.71) When the Slave Revolt event (Standard Game Only) or
Event card (Advanced Game Only ) is played (see 17.0), the
affected player undergoes a Slave Revolt. First, the affected
player’s Stability level is decreased by one (–1). Next, a player
with whom he does not currently have an Alliance places 2 BI in
any one unoccupied Space in the affected player’s Home Terri-
tory. It may be placed in an unoccupied Town or City space (in
which case see below). Starting with the next AM drawn, each
player whose AM is drawn (except the affected player) must do
two things while the Revolt is “on” (in addition to his normal
Activations):
• Add 1 BI to the Slave Army
• Move the entire Army one Space (ignoring Transit Points),
but leaving 1 unit in any Town or City in which it began that
Activation. In doing so, it may attack any units in that Space.
If the only place it can move is into an enemy occupied space,
the Slave Army may simply stay where it is.
(12.72) The Revolt ends when all of the Slave Army units have
been eliminated. At that point, increase the Stability by one (+1).
(12.73) Slave units may not use Naval Transport. If attacked,
they may neither Withdraw nor Retreat (voluntarily or by force).
If the Slave Army is initially placed on an unoccupied Town or
City space, or if it enters or captures a Town or City during its
Movement, it does not convert the Town/City from its current
ownership, but it does deny control of that Town/City for all
Income, Civilization Point, and Line of Communication con-
cerns. In addition, if attacked, it automatically uses the Town or
City in defense.
(12.74) Losses of Battles or Cities/Towns to Slaves never gener-
ate Militia. Battles against a player’s own Cities or Towns con-
trolled by Slaves never result in Sack and Plunder.

(13.0) BARBARIANS
A game of Pax Romana is certain to feature numerous Barbar-
ians. They appear with Barbarian Invasions and Rebellions, and
as Tribes of unknown strength blocking the players’ way to con-
trol of various provinces. The rules here cover all three types.
(13.1) TRIBES
(13.11) There are 30 Tribal Counters. Each counter
has two sides: the front has a “?” to show its
unrevealed side, and the back has a number showing
how many Tribal Infantry the counter represents.
When setting up the game, all of the Tribal Counters
are placed ?-side up on the table, thoroughly mixed,
and randomly placed on the map, unrevealed side up, one for
each Tribal Space. Any Tribal Counters left over are kept aside,
also with their unrevealed side up.
(13.12) Tribes come into play whenever a force enters a Tribal
Space, at which point the Tribal Counter is flipped to reveal its
initial Tribal Infantry value (the range is 2-8). As the Tribe takes
losses, Tribal Infantry counters are then placed on the map in
that space while the Tribal Counter is flipped back over and
placed with the other Tribal Counters not in use.
(13.13) Entering a Tribal Space automatically initiates an attack
against the Tribe. As a result, it costs +1 MP to enter the Space.
When attacked, Tribes may neither Withdraw nor Retreat (vol-
untarily or by force).
(13.14) Tribal Infantry units may never move.
(13.15) Tribal units control the Spaces they occupy. As a result,
they can contest a Player’s control of provinces.
(13.16) Tribes may be attacked by Barbarian Infantry executing
a Barbarian Invasion.
(13.17) Tribal Infantry units are removed from the map only as a
result of Battles. They do not disappear in the Removal Phase.
(13.18) If an Event calls for a Tribal Counter to be returned to
the map (as the Tribal Resurgence Event Card does in the Ad-
vanced Game), an unused Tribal Counter is randomly chosen
and placed in an unoccupied Tribal Space, unrevealed side up.
However, no Tribal Space can ever contain more than one Tribal
Counter, so if there are no unoccupied Tribal Spaces on the map
(highly unlikely), no Tribal Counters are placed.
DESIGN NOTE: There were, obviously, many more tribes than
are depicted in the game. We’ve kept their presence to the “26”
for play purposes.
(13.2) BARBARIAN INFANTRY
(13.21) Barbarian Infantry (BI) units come into play
by the play of Event chits (Standard Game) or Event
cards (Advanced Game). The primary Barbarian-gen-
erating Event Cards in the latter are Rebellions (13.3) and Bar-
barian Invasion (13.4).
(13.22) BI units control the Spaces they occupy. As a result,
they can contest a Player’s control of provinces.
(13.23) BI units are placed and move (if at all) according to the
conditions on the Event Table (Standard Game) or Event card
(Advanced Game) that causes their placement. Unless otherwise
specified, they may not Move, Withdraw, or Retreat (voluntar-
ily or by force).
(13.24) If a moving Army enters a Space that has BI it must
attack those BI, using normal Land Combat mechanics. How-
ever, unless the Event card specifies otherwise (as several Bar-
barian Invasion events do), no one plays the BI Army, no cards
are played for its benefit, and the BI may neither withdraw nor
retreat. One of the non-Active players rolls the die for the Bar-
barian force and distributes losses.
(13.25) Some Barbarian units are removed from the map in the
Removal Phase. Others are not. See the specific rules for each
Barbarian Invasion or Rebellion.
(13.26) Barbarian Invasion armies are, in most cases, handled
differently from other Barbarian Infantry. The player placing the
invading army—and in some cases other players during that
Game-Turn—controls the army as if it is one of their own. Bar-
barian Invasion armies may even attack other Barbarian Infan-
try and Tribal Infantry. These rules apply to several types of
Barbarian Invasion but only one type of Rebellion, the Massive
Rebellion in Gaul (see 13.3).
(13.37) Barbarian Invasion armies may attack and destroy Cit-
ies and Towns if the controlling player so desires. If they do so,
they automatically attempt Sack and Plunder, but only in order
to determine if they continue moving (they do not collect Tal-
ents for Sack and Plunder).
(13.3) REBELLIONS
This section of rules is consulted when a Rebellion card is played
(Advanced Game) or a Rebellion event is rolled (Standard Game),
after the dice roll (2d6) and the Rebellion Table has indicated
where the rebellion has taken place. The specifics for each area
are listed below.
Unless specifically indicated in the rule for a specific Rebellion,
all Barbarian Infantry units that enter the game as a result of a
Rebellion remain on the map until eliminated.
AFRICA
This is in effect only if the Carthaginian player has mercenaries
in the province of Africa. If there are none, treat as No Event. If
there are Mercenaries, remove all of them and replace each re-
moved stack with BI equal to their BP strength. If any rebelling
mercenaries are now in the same Space as Carthaginian units,
the rebellious mercenaries will attack those units. If the rebels
win the Battle, the Carthaginians must retreat from the space. If
the rebels lose the battle they are eliminated totally from that
Space (no withdrawals or retreats.) Rebels who do not lose, and
rebels in other Spaces, remain in place until eliminated; they
may not use Withdrawal. Africa provides no income until all
such rebels are eliminated.

BRITANNIA
When the Brits rebel, all garrisons are removed from Britannia
province and an army of 3 BI (with no leader) is placed in any
one, unoccupied Space. This army may not Move, Withdraw, or
Retreat (voluntarily or by force). No one controls Britannia un-
til that army is eliminated.
CYPRUS
When the Cypriots rebel, no Naval Movement is allowed into or
through a Cyprus space for the rest of the Game-Turn, unless
the player already has a Galley Squadron in a Cyprus space, in
which case this restriction is ignored.
DANUBE
All player units (not tribal markers or BI) to a maximum of 8 BP
in any one Space of the provinces of the Danube Territories are
eliminated. If there are no units, treat as No Event. If more than
one space has player units, the player who drew the card chooses
which space is affected.
GERMANY
All player units (not Tribal markers or BI) to a maximum of 8
BP in any one Space of the provinces of Germania Inferior or
Superior are eliminated. If there are no units, treat as No Event.
If more than one space has player units, the player who drew the
card chooses which space is affected.
PLAY NOTE: German Rebellions are different from the several
Germanic invasions ... lots of disruptive activity by the Ger-
mans in this game.
GAUL
If no player controls any provinces in mainland Gaul, the player
may remove any one garrison in Gaul. If there are none, nothing
happens.
If any one province is controlled, roll 1d6. Modify the result by
adding the number of Gallic provinces (other than Britannia)
that are controlled by players.
If the adjusted DR is a 1-6, this is a Local Rebellion by one or
two tribes. Eliminate all the garrisons or player-owned land units
(to a maximum of 8 BP) from any one Space in Gaul that is not
a Town or City, and replace with 3 BI (if more than one space
has player units, the player who drew the card chooses which
space is affected). In addition, place 1 BI unit in every uncon-
trolled Space in that province. This army may not Move, With-
draw, or Retreat (voluntarily or by force). They may affect Con-
trol, however.
If the adjusted DR is a 7+, a Massive Rebellion has occurred.
• The Player designates one of the four Gallic provinces as the
home for the Revolt. All player-owned land units and garri-
sons in that province that are not in Towns/Cities are removed.
• The Player then receives the 2-5 Gallic leader, plus BI equal
to the roll of two dice (2d6). The player places this army in
any Space (whether or not it is occupied) in the selected prov-
ince and, as the Major Move for this Activation (and for any
subsequent Activation for any Player this Game-Turn if the
then-active player desires), that player may undertake Mili-
tary Operations with that Gallic Army (as his Major Move). If
the placement Space is occupied, the Gallic Army immedi-
ately attacks that Space, expending 2 MP to do so, using the
normal Land Battle rules (including the possibility of Pre-Battle
Withdrawal).
• The Gallic Army may not move out of Gaul (or go to Britain).
• The entire Gallic Army is removed in the Removal Phase of
the next Game-Turn.
PLAY NOTE: Yes, it’s exactly as it says: the player may use the
Gallic rebels every time an AM is pulled that Game-Turn. For
any player hanging around Gaul during a Massive Rebellion,
this can be a Very Bad Thing.
Once a Massive Rebellion has occurred, it may never occur again.
Treat any subsequent Gallic rebellions as local.
Spaces with Towns and Cities are never affected by a Local Re-
bellion. They may be attacked by the Gallic Army in a Massive
Rebellion, though.
HISPANIA
Eliminate any one garrison unit in Hispania, and then place 3 BI
in either
• Any one empty, non Town/City Space in Lusitania
• Numantia (Tarraconensis), if uncontrolled.
These units may not Move, Withdraw, or Retreat (voluntarily or
by force). Units moving into a Hispanic Space that is connected
to the above Space pay +1 MP for each Space so entered.
JUDEA
The following are the effects of a Jewish Revolt.
• Remove all garrison counters in Judea, and eliminate at least
1 BP of any type, in addition to the garrisons.
• Place 1 BI in any unoccupied Space in Judea. The BI goes
into an unoccupied City or Town if one exists, and will use the
City/Town in defense when attacked. Spaces occupied by
Fleets are not considered “unoccupied”.
• As long as at least one “Jewish” BI is on the map, units mov-
ing into Judea spend 2MP for each Space entered. If attacked,
the BI unit may not Move, Withdraw, or Retreat (voluntarily
or by force).
MAURETANIA
When the Moors rebel, place 1 BI in each unoccupied Space in
the province (none get placed if all spaces are occupied). No one
controls Mauretania until all rebels are eliminated. These units
may not Move, Withdraw, or Retreat (voluntarily or by force).
NAVAL MUTINY
The player designates any one Fleet on the map as having muti-
nied. That Fleet may not move for the rest of the Game-Turn, or
until the owning player pays 1T per Squadron (and he must do
so for all squadrons in that Fleet)... whichever comes first.
SARDINIA
Place a BI unit in any Space in Sardinia that is either unoccupied
or solely garrison-occupied. In the latter case, remove the garri-

son. Player Fleets are not affected. The BI may not Move, With-
draw, or Retreat (voluntarily or by force).
(13.4) BARBARIAN INVASIONS
Barbarian invasions can—as they did historically—disrupt even
the best-laid plans. However, unlike some Rebellions (13.3), all
Barbarian Invasion forces are removed during the Removal Phase
of the following Game-Turn.
(13.41) When a Barbarian Invasion Card is played—it must be
played before undertaking his Operation for that Activation—
the Player rolls 2d6 and refers to the Invasion Table to deter-
mine which group of barbarians has invaded. He then performs
the actions outlined in the section below that corresponds to the
result of the dice roll.
(13.42) If the result calls for the placement and movement of a
Barbarian force, the Player who drew the card undertakes a Mili-
tary Operation with the units provided for that Invasion. These
units function like all other land units, except that they may not
use Naval Transport, and they may move into or through spaces
that contain forces friendly to the activating player. In some cases,
at the end of the Barbarian force's movement, it stays where it is,
moving during no other Activations until eliminated by another
player. In other cases (Germans, for example), multiple activa-
tions are possible, and even by different players.
(13.43) Relevant Event cards may be played by any Player, in-
cluding the owning Player, during Barbarian operations.
(13.44) If, during any Invasion, the Barbarian Army comes within
one MP of a Home Capital the affected Player (only) has his
Stability reduced by one (–1), unless the space is already en-
emy-controlled (i.e., not controlled by the player who controlled
it at the start of the game). This is a one-time penalty against any
player for each Barbarian Army, however.
WESTERN GAULS
This is No Event if all of the four Gallic provinces of mainland
Gaul are controlled by the players. If not, the Player rolling this
receives a Gallic invasion army of:
• BI equal to the total of rolling 2 dice (2d6)
• A 1-5 Barbarian Leader
in mainland Gaul and undertakes Military Operations with this
Army in addition to his normal operation(s)—Expansion or Re-
cruitment—for that Activation. If the placement Space is occu-
pied, the Army immediately attacks that Space, expending 2 MP
to do so. This Army is treated like any other Army; there are no
Movement Restrictions. The Gallic army remains on the map,
unless eliminated, until the Removal Phase of the next Game-
Turn, when it is removed. Only the player drawing the card may
use this army, and only that one time.
EASTERN GAULS
The Player rolling this receives a Gallic invasion army in either
Sarmatia or Scythia:
• BI equal to the total of rolling 2 dice (2d6)
• A 1-5 Barbarian Leader.
in Sarmatia or Scythia and undertakes Military Operations with
this Army in addition to his normal Activation for that phase. If
the placement Space is occupied, the Army immediately attacks
that Space, expending 2 MP to do so. This Army is treated like
any other Army; there are no Movement Restrictions. It remains
on the map, unless eliminated, until the Removal Phase of the
next Game-Turn, when it is removed. Only the player drawing
the card may use this army, and only that one time.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Celts/Gauls invaded the Balkans in 280
BCE and eventually reached Galatia (Asia), where they settled.
GERMANS
A Germanic Invading Army is placed, as indicated below. The
Player receives:
• BI equal to a 3d6 DR if placed in Germania Magna, or in any
Space in the “Germanic Tribes” territory.
• BI equal to 2d6 DR + 2 Cav if placed in Germania Inferior or
Superior.
• A 2-5 Barbarian Leader.
in the selected province and undertakes Military Operations with
this Army in addition to his normal operation(s)—Expansion or
Recruitment—for that Activation. If the placement Space is oc-
cupied, the Army immediately attacks that Space, expending 2
MP to do so. He now undertakes Military Operations with this
Army in addition to his normal Activation for that phase. It is
treated like any other Army.
The German army may be activated again by any Player who
wishes to use this German Army as his Major Move in a Mili-
tary Operation, except that it may not be moved back to the prov-
ince/territory from which it originally came. Otherwise it remains
on the map, unless eliminated, until the Removal Phase of the
next Game-Turn, when it is removed. If attacked, the Barbarian
army may not Withdraw or Retreat (voluntarily or by force),
unless it is intercepted while being moved by a player.
PLAY NOTE: Note that the player who places the German Bar-
barian army in the first place gets to move it before his Major
Move, whereas any player wishing to move it in a subsequent
Activation must use his Major Move in order to do so.
CALEDONIANS
Remove all garrisons in Britannia. Call King Arthur for help.
ARMENIANS
Roll 1d6 for each and every occupied Space—but not Mountain
Fortress Spaces—within 3 MP of Armida. If that DR is higher
than the number of units in that Space (treat Garrisons as ‘1’ and
ignore unoccupied Towns and Cities), remove those units. If
Armida is occupied by a non-garrison unit, this is No Event.
However, if Armida is occupied solely by a Town or City, the
Event still applies.

PART E: STABILITY AND
VICTORY
14.0 STABILITY
14.1 Stability
14.2 Adjusting Stability (Standard Game)
14.3 Adjusting Stability (Advanced Game)
15.0 VICTORY
15.1 Victory Points
15.2 Geographic Objective Points (GOP)
15.3 Civilization Points (CVP)
15.4 Opportunity Objective Points (OOP)
(14.0) STABILITY
Maintaining a stable government over an extended period of time
can be a truly trying and rather elusive goal. In Pax Romana,
this is precisely what you try to do.
(14.1) STABILITY
(14.11) Each Power keeps track of his Stability on the Stability
Track. As countries become less and less stable, they are less
able to easily field a large army, and they become open to a
variety of harmful events through the play of various cards, with
the ultimate being a Civil War, an event which really throws a
crimp into a player’s plans for world domination.
(14.12) Not every Power starts at the same level of Stability. See
the Initial Deployment for the starting Stability Levels for each
Power.
(14.13) There are three ranges of Stability: Stable, Unrest, and
Turmoil (as noted on the Stability Track). The ranges determine
what happens when specific Events take place or Event Cards
are played. They also determine the Manpower Maximums for
that player (see 6.42) and the number of Militia he may recruit
(see 12.34).
(14.14) A Player’s Stability Level may never go above +8 or
below –6.
(14.2) ADJUSTING STABILITY
(14.21) The Stability Track is adjusted (for the affected Player)
each time certain events take place or Cards are played, as fol-
• The Cards will state specifically what happens in terms of the
Stability Level. Adjust the track upon the play of the card.
• A Player gains one level (+1) for each non-Home province
over which he gains control the instant he does so.
• A Player loses one level (–1) for each non-Home province of
which he loses control the instant he does so.
• A Player loses two levels (–2) for each Home province of which
he loses control the instant he does so.
• A Player gains two levels (+2) for each Home province over
which he regains control the instant he does so.
• A Player loses one level (–1) each time he conducts Pre-Battle
Withdrawal from a space in his Home Territory, the instant he
does so.
• A Player loses one level (–1) each time he raises Militia, the
instant he does so.
• A Player loses one level (–1) if a Barbarian Army comes within
1 MP of his Home Capital space (either Home Capital space
in the case of Greece and The East), the instant this occurs.
This happens only once per Barbarian Army, however.
• A Player loses one level (–1) the instant a Slave Army appears
in his Home Territory, regaining that level (+1) the instant
that Slave Army is eliminated.
• A Player gains one level (+1), during the Victory Phase of the
Game-Turn, for having acquired more Victory Points than any
other player during that Game-Turn.
• A Player loses one level (–1), during the Victory Phase of the
Game-Turn, for having acquired fewer Victory Points than
any other player during that Game-Turn.
• During the Maintenance Phase of each Game-Turn, if a Player
has more HI and/or LG than he has Civilization Points (15.3)
his Stability is reduced by two (–2). It is reduced by three (–3)
if he has more than three times (3X) more HI and/or LG units
than Civilization Points, and (Advanced Game Only) by four
(–4) if more than 4X.
• A Player loses one level (–1) whenever he loses the space in
which his original capital was located (one level for each capital
space in the case of Greece and the East). In addition, at the
end of each Game-Turn, beginning with the one in which he
lost the capital, he loses another Stability level. This contin-
ues until he retakes the capital, at which point he regains one
(+1) Stability level (and only one).
HISTORICAL NOTE: The location of the capitals mattered a
great deal. Pella, for example, was the center of the Macedonian
world; Rome was the center of the Roman world. They were
irreplaceable to their respective cultures.
(14.22) Optional Rule: Disbanding HI/LG Units (Advanced
Game Only). A Player may avoid the Stability Point penalty for
having too many HI/LG units by Disbanding units. He does so
at the start of any of his Activations during the Game-Turn, im-
mediately following the drawing of the Event Card, by remov-
ing whatever number of HI and/or LG units he wishes from the
map (presumably enough to get down to his Civilization Point
limit). However, if the Event Card results in his losing the Acti-
vation (such as the Dies Irae card), he may not remove the Units
that Activation. Even when units are successfully disbanded,
however, he gets no money back for them; they are simply taken
off the map for good. The only purpose of this action is to elimi-
nate the Stability Point Losses that would otherwise occur in the
Maintenance Phase of the following Game-Turn (and note that
the choice is made even though the Stability Loss is not yet cer-
tain).

(15.0) VICTORY
(15.1) VICTORY POINTS
During the Victory Phase of each Game-Turn, players calculate
Victory Points, adjusting the markers on the Victory Point Track
to reflect the new VP totals.
(15.11) The number of Victory Points each player receives for
the current Game-Turn is equal to the following:
• The number of VP resulting from the GOP standings (15.2)
plus
• The number of VP resulting from the CVP standings (15.3)
plus
• The number of VP resulting from achieving Opportunity Ob-
jectives (15.4, only certain scenarios)
(15.12) The power which has gained the most Victory Points
during that Game-Turn Phase raises its Stability Level by one
(+1). The power which has gained the fewest VPs lowers its
Stability Level by one (–1). In both cases, ties negate Stability
changes.
PLAY NOTE: The cumulative VPs that each player possesses
at the time is irrelevant…it is the number of VPs that they gained
in the particular turn which affects the Stability change above.
(15.13) The VP levels at the end of each Game-Turn (not the
gains or losses) determine the order of play for the first set of
Activations (but only the first set) in the next Game-Turn:
• The power with the fewest VP goes first; the power with the
second fewest VP goes second; and so on.
• If two powers are tied in VP, the power with the lower Stabil-
ity Level gets the advantage (i.e., he gets an Activation ahead
of the player with whom he was tied); if Stability Levels are
tied, the player with the fewer Civilization Points get the ad-
vantage; if all these are tied, roll a die (low result gets the
advantage).
(15.2) GEOGRAPHIC OBJECTIVE POINTS (GOP)
(15.21) At the end of each Game-Turn players earn a set scale of
Victory Points by having more (or fewer) GOP than the other
players.
(15.22) Each player determines his total GOP as follows:
• 1 GOP for each Province he controls
• 1 GOP for each non-Home Territory controlled (in addition to
the Provincial GOPs earned in that Territory).
• No GOP are awarded for controlling your Home Territory or
Barbarian Territories.
• The number of GOP awarded for Opportunity Objectives, in
scenarios where OOs are in use; see 15.4.
(15.23) Victory Points for GOP are awarded on the following
scale:
7 VP for the player with the most GOP
4 VP for the player with the second most
2 VP for the player with the third most
0 VP for the player with the lowest GOP total
If players are tied in GOP, total their VP and divide evenly, round-
ing down fractions. Thus a tie for third (normally 2 VP) and fourth
(normally 0 VP) would produce 1 VP for both players, while a 3-
way tie for second (normally 4 VP for 2nd place and 2 VP for 3rd
place) would produce 2 for each player (4 VP + 2 VP + 0 VP
divided by 3, equals 2). Ties negate any change in Stability.
EXAMPLE: At the end of Game-Turn III, Greece and the East
both have 8 provinces, while Carthage has 6 and Rome has 4.
No player has earned any GOP from Opportunity Objectives
(see 15.4). Rome gets zero VP because it has the fewest GOP,
while Carthage gets 2 VP. Greece and East are tied for first and
second place, so they split the VP for those positions between
them. Therefore, they add 7+4=11 and divide by 2, rounding
down, resulting in 5 VP for each player. All players now adjust
the VP tracks accordingly.
(15.3) CIVILIZATION POINTS (CVP)
(15.31) At the end of each Game-Turn players earn a set scale of
Victory Points by having more (or fewer) Civilization Points
(CVP) than the other players.
(15.32) CVP are earned by a power as follows:
• 1 CVP for each full-strength Town controlled by that power.
• 0 CVP for each reduced-strength Town controlled by that
power.
• 3 CVP for each full-strength City controlled by that power.
• 1 CVP for each reduced-strength City controlled by that power.
(15.33) Victory Points for Civilization Points are earned as fol-
• 5 VP for the player with the most Civilization points
• 3 VP for the player with the second most
• 1 VP for the player with the third most
• 0 VP for the player with the lowest GOP total
If players are tied in CVP, total their VP and divide evenly, round-
ing down fractions. Thus a 2-way tie for third (normally 1 VP)
would produce 0 VP for both players, and a 3-way tie for first
(normally 5 VP) would produce 3 for each (5 VP + 3 VP + 1 VP
divided by 3, equals 3).
EXAMPLE: At the end of Game-Turn I, Greece has 3 cities and
3 towns, the East has 1 city and 4 towns, Rome has two cities
and 1 town, and Carthage has 1 city and 2 towns (all of these
cities and towns are at full strength). Greece therefore has 12
CVP, East has 7, Rome has 7, and Carthage has 5. Greece gets
5 VP while Carthage gets none. Rome and the East are tied for
second and third place, so they divide the 4 VP for those place-
ments in half, with each getting 2 VP. The Victory Points track
is adjusted accordingly.
(15.4) OPPORTUNITY OBJECTIVES
(Scenarios V and VI only)
DESIGN NOTE: Opportunity Objectives represent the decisions
being made politically by the governments of various powers.
This rule is only used in Scenarios V and VI.

(15.41) The game contains 20 Opportunity Objective (OO) mark-
ers. The back of each marker has a letter which corresponds to the
Opportunity Objectives Table. That table explains what that Ob-
jective is, and whether or not there are any restrictions to that
Objective.
(15.42) During the Victory Phase, each Player gains either GOP
or actual Victory Points for each Opportunity Objective he has
achieved by that point in the game.
(15.43) Purchasing OOs. During the Manpower Phase of a sce-
nario where Opportunity Objectives are in use, each player may
purchase one OO marker by paying a number of Talents, de-
pending on his Stability. The costs are:
Stable: 1 Talent
Unrest: 2 Talents
Turmoil: 3 Talents
A player may never purchase an OO marker if he already pos-
sesses three of them. However, he may get OO’s at no cost
through card play in the Advanced Game, allowing him to have
more than three until he discards one (17.2), but until he has
fewer than three he may purchase no more.
(15.44) Drawing OOs. All currently unpurchased OO markers
are kept either in a cup, or facedown on the table. This is known
as the OO Pool. At no time may players examine the contents of
the OO Pool. After paying for an OO, the player draws an OO
marker randomly from the OO Pool, examines the letter, checks
the Opportunity Objectives Table to see what that letter means,
and places the marker facedown in front of him.
(15.45) OO Secrecy. The vast majority of the time, players will
want to keep their OO markers secret from the other players. If
allied, however, players may want to reveal one or more of them
to each other in order to coordinate operations. Players may never
give OOs to each other, however. Furthermore, OO markers must
be revealed by a player claiming the GOP or VP awards for at-
taining them. Each revealed OO marker remains revealed in front
of the player until he discards it (15.46).
(15.46) Discarding OOs. Discarding an OO marker means plac-
ing it back into the OO pool, making it available for purchase by
any player in a subsequent Manpower Phase. Three OO markers
(L, M, and N) must be discarded immediately after use. Other
than that, a player is never required to discard OO markers; once
he plays an OO marker, he may continue to gain GOP each turn
he fulfills its requirements. In addition, a player may, in the Re-
moval Phase, discard any of his OO.
(15.47) Some OOs may not be used by certain players. If one of
these is selected by that player, he simply picks another and re-
turns the unusable one to the OO pool.
(15.48) OO markers must be revealed to all other player in order
to prove attainment and collect GOP or Victory Points.
(15.49) The following are the possible Objectives, the number
of such OO available (in square brackets), and their associated
GOP or Victory Points. This information is also on each Player’s
Player Card.
PLAY NOTE: Unquestionably, many Opportunity Objectives are
difficult to achieve, but they must not be ignored. Players must
attempt to achieve the ones they picked, and they must try to
keep the other players from achieving theirs. Since the Objec-
tive markers are kept hidden, each player must watch what the
other players are doing in order to try to determine their objec-
tives and stop them from meeting them.
The following OOs earn GOP, to use in calculation of VP as
per 15.22
A. Control Asia Minor [2] The player must control all Asia
Minor provinces with a port (which means all except Cappado-
cia). 8 GOP for Rome or Carthage; 4 for Greece or The East.
B. Control Egypt [2] 8 GOP This Objective may not be used by
The East.
C. Control Hispania [2] 8 GOP; 4 GOP for Carthage
D. Control the Eastern Mediterranean. [1] The player must
control Crete, Cyprus, and Cilicia. 6 GOP; 3 GOP for The East.
E. Control Gaul (Gallia) [2] 6 GOP; 3 GOP for Rome
F. Control The Aegean Sea. [1] The player must control the
ports of Chios, Naxos, Cnossus, and Miletus. 6 GOP. This Ob-
jective may not be used by Greece.
G. Control Central Europe. [1] The player must control
Germania Superior, Raetia and Noricum. 4 GOP
H. Control the Danube. [2] 8 GOP, 4 GOP for Greece or Rome.
I. Control Sicily and the Tyrrhenian Sea. [1] The player must
control both provinces of Sicily, plus Sardinia and Corsica. 4
GOP
J. Control the Western Mediterranean. [1] The Player must
control all Ports in Baetica, Mauretania, and Tarraconensis, plus
the Balaeres Islands. 6 GOP; 3 GOP for Carthage
K. Have a Town or City in five (5) different Territories, other
than Home Territory. [2] 6 GOP
The following OOs earn actual Victory Points in the Game-
Turn in which they are used (and must be returned to the OO
pool after use):
L. Be the Richest Player in the game. [1] This is determined at
the end of The Income Phase and is measured solely in Talents
the players have. If this is a tie, no VP are awarded. [1] 3 VP
M. Control one Home Province of any other player. [1] 3 VP
N. Control any of the following Independent Territories: The
Sicilies, Germania, The Chersonese, or Rhodes plus Crete. [1] 2
VP for each of these controlled.

PART F: EVENTS
16.0 EVENTS (STANDARD GAME ONLY)
16.1 Event Markers
16.2 The Events (Standard Game Only)
17.0 EVENT CARDS (ADVANCED GAME ONLY)
17.1 Using The Event Cards
17.2 The Cards
(16.0) EVENTS (STANDARD GAME
ONLY)
(16.1) EVENT MARKERS
(16.11) Pax provides two Event Markers, to be used like AMs in
that they are placed in the opaque cup with the other AMs at the
beginning of each Game-Turn. Players may decide, before start-
ing play of the game, whether to use one or two each turn. The
more you use, the longer the game (as the Events mean the play-
ers usually have to stop and do something).
(16.12) When an Event Marker is drawn, the player who drew it
rolls two dice, adding them, and consulting the Events Table to
see which event has occurred.
(16.13) Most Events affect everyone, so it matters little who drew
the Event Marker. However, if the Event Marker is player-spe-
cific, it applies to the player who is activated by the next AM
drawn (not specifically selected), even if it is the next Game-Turn.
(16.2) THE EVENTS (STANDARD GAME
ONLY)
The Events that may occur, and how they affect play, are as fol-
Barbarian Invasion: Roll two dice and consult the Invasion
Table for who, what, when and where. See 13.4 for details.
Conqueror: If the player who gets activated by the next drawn
AM has an Elite Leader in play, he may, for any subsequent
AMs during this Game-Turn, give that Leader an additional ac-
tivation, in essence, providing him with two separate, succes-
sive “moves”. (He goes twice.)
Disease: The player who gets activated by the next drawn AM
must roll one die, comparing that dieroll to the campaign rating
of his highest-rated Leader in the game (add the tactical and
campaign ratings together—the leader with the higher total is
the highest-rated leader—if tied, it’s the player’s choice). If the
dieroll is the same as or lower than that rating, that Leader has
died. Remove him. Note that this event affects better leaders
more readily than lesser leaders.
Galley Technology: The player who gets activated by the next
drawn AM has all his galley squadrons increased to a value of
3 BP in any naval battles for the remainder of the Game-Turn.
If both sides get galley technology in the same turn, they each
have it.
Harvest Time: The Player rolls one die and consults the Har-
vest Table to see which Area (Territory) of the map is affected.
He then rolls another die:
• If the die is even, Harvests have been Bounteous. Increase the
Stability of the Player who controls that Territory by two (+2).
If no control, no effect.
• If the die is odds, there is Famine and Drought. Reduce the
Stability of the Player who controls that Territory by two (–2).
If no control, no effect.
Pirates: The player places a Pirate marker in any one NTP that
is not within one Naval Space of Rhodes. See 12.6 for the ef-
fects of this.
Rebellion: A Rebellion has occurred. To determine where the
Rebellion has occurred, and what kind of rebellion it is, roll two
dice (2d12) and consult the Rebellion Table (Charts and Tables)
for which territory or province has revolted. Remove all garri-
sons in that province (no matter to whom they belong) and re-
duce Stability by one (–1) for any player controlling any Spaces
in the area listed. Exception: Naval Mutiny. The player desig-
nates any one Fleet on the map as having mutinied. That Fleet
may not move for the rest of the Game-Turn, or until the owning
player pays 1T per Squadron (and he must do so for all squad-
rons in that Fleet)… whichever comes first.
Revenues and Stability: This affects all players.
• If a Player has less than 3T in his Treasury when drawn, sub-
tract one (–1) from his Stability.
• If a Player has more than 12T in his Treasury when drawn,
add one (+1) to his Stability.
Slave Revolt: This card affects the player who drew the Event
marker, but only if he has at least one Space with no land units
in his home territory. See 12.74. If a slave revolt is already in
play against the drawing player, treat this roll as No Event.
Soldier of Fortune: Player may activate a Soldier of Fortune
Army as per 12.4. Romans ignore and reroll for another event.
Stability Check: Whether anything takes place depends on the
current Stability Level of the Player who draws the next AM. If
no one is currently at any of the three Stability Levels listed, the
drawing player reduces his Stability by one (–1). The possible
ramifications are:
• Unrest. Stability Level is between 0 and +3. The affected
player must pay 3T for bread and circuses to keep the locals
amused. If he does not have the 3 Ts, or refuses to pay, lower
his Stability by one (–1) for each Talent he refuses to or can-
not pay.
• Disorder. Stability Level is “Unrest”. The player must, for
his next (or current) Activation this phase move an Army worth
at least 3 BP to his capital, in addition to what he already has
there. If he does not succeed in doing so, lower his Stability
by one (–1) and remove all garrisons he has, regardless where
they are.
• Civil War. Stability Level is Turmoil. The affected player:

◊may not undertake any further activations that Game-Turn.
If he has no AM remaining, all AM for the following Game-
Turn cost 2T each.
◊Roll 1d6 for the allegiance of each Space occupied by the
Player, including galley squadrons. If the DR is odd, re-
move all units in that Space, as having taken the wrong side
(Towns and Cities stay in place, though).
◊Remove all Leaders he has; replace with only one, newly
drawn Leader, who starts in his capital.
◊Once all of the above is done, return the Stability Level of
the Player to –1/Unrest.
(17.0) EVENT CARDS (ADVANCED
GAME ONLY)
(17.1) USING THE EVENT CARDS
(17.11) There are 55 cards, representing a wide realm of possi-
bilities germane to the historical situation. All cards (other than
those retained in a Player’s hand at Game-Turn’s end, as below,
and/or those cards that have been played and Removed from the
game) are re-shuffled in the Victory Phase of the game in prepa-
ration for the next Game-Turn.
(17.12) Types of Cards: There are two types of cards: “Play
When Drawn” and “Hold in Hand”. The former must be played
immediately after a player draws it; the latter may be kept, ac-
cording to the restrictions noted here.
(17.13) The Card Segment: Each time a player’s AM is played,
and once he has paid for that AM, he must draw a Card from the
Deck. He then may (or must, if the card is a “Play When Drawn”
type or if he has too many cards in his hand) either
• play that card, and/or
• play one from his Hand, or
• do nothing and keep the card in his hand (secret from the other
players).
PLAY NOTE: Some of the scenarios specify that the game be-
gins with the Operations Segment of the Activation Phase of a
specific Game-Turn. For the very first AM, therefore, no card is
drawn, since the Card Segment has already passed.
(17.14) Keeping Cards: A player may have no more than 3 “Hold
in Hand” cards in his possession at any one time. If he already
has 3 and draws another, he must discard one of his existing 3 if
he wishes to add the new one to his hand. In addition, a player
may carry over to the next Game-Turn one (1) card, which he
retains “In hand”; all other cards are returned to the deck for
Reshuffle at turn’s end.
(17.15) When Cards are Played: “Play When Drawn” cards
are played during the Card Segment of the Activation Phase (im-
mediately upon drawing them). “Hold in Hand” cards may be
played during the Card Segment and/or any player’s Operations
Segment of the Activation Phase. No cards may be played dur-
ing any other segment or phase. A player may always discard a
“Hold in Hand” card as No Event if he wishes. Furthermore, a
player may play as many of his “Hold in Hand” cards as he
wishes during an Activation (there is no limit).
PLAY NOTE: A player may play Event cards even if he chooses
a Recruitment operation instead of Expansion operations. This
means that it’s possible to play (for example) a Barbarian Inva-
sion card (see 13.4), move and fight with the Barbarian army,
and then recruit.
(17.16) Carthage and Cards: The Carthaginians may play any
“Hold in Hand” card for the purpose of raising Mercenaries, in
addition to the actual mercenary card, as per 12.24. The Event
on the card is ignored.
(17.2) THE CARDS
The play/use of each card is described below; in some instances
(e.g., Invasion, etc.), more details may be found in the actual
rules.
Alliance (2): The player who plays this card may open Political
Talks with any one other player—and only one. See 4.2.
Alliance with Rhodes. (1): When this card is played, the Player
has formed an alliance with Rhodes (if Rhodes is currently non-
Allied), for which he must pay 3T for that privilege. Until that alli-
ance ends (see the Alliance Card), that Player:
• has the use of Rhodes’ Galley Fleet (but not the HI). He does not
have to pay any maintenance for this Fleet, but he must replace
any lost squadrons.
• receives 1T from each player whose galleys enter Rhodes. See
12.51 for more details.
Alliance with Pergamum (1): When this card is played, the Player
has formed an alliance with Pergamum (if Pergamum is currently
non-Allied). Until that alliance ends (see the Alliance Card):
• That player has the use of any and all of Pergamum’s forces as if
they were his own army. They may combine with any of the
Player’s own forces. They are activated by that Player’s AM, as
per 12.54.
• When taking losses, for each Player BP or galley lost, the player
may eliminate a like number of Pergamenes to satisfy losses.
• When activating Pergamum (by AM), the player rolls the die. If
he rolls a 1-4, nothing happens. If he rolls a ‘5’, place the 1-4
Pergamene Leader (in theory, Attalus I) in Pergamum; if it’s a
‘6’, place the 2-5 Pergamene Leader (in theory, Eumenes II).
• Pergamene forces may not be rebuilt, nor may she ever get new
units. If there are no Pergamene forces in play, treat card as No
Event.
• While allied to the Pergamese, the player cannot gain control of
Spaces initially occupied by Pergamese forces (even if the player’s
forces are the sole occupants of such a Space).
Ambush (1): This card is played whenever another player’s units
enter a Land Transit Point. Roll 1d6 and halve the result (rounding
up). That number of BPs (at least) are eliminated from the moving

Army. May not be used against an Army moving inside its Home
Territory. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Archimedes Effect, The (1): [So named for the brilliant Greek in-
ventor who was instrumental in the defense of Syracuse against the
Romans in 212 BCE.] Place the “Inventor” marker in any City Space.
For the remainder of the current Game-Turn, that City gives two (2)
Battle Die-Roll Shifts to the Defender in any attack against it. May
be Held in hand and played later.
Barbarian Invasion (2): Roll two dice and consult the Invasion
Table for who, what, when and where. See 13.4 for details. This
card must be played when drawn.
Bounteous Harvests (2): Crops are so plentiful that granaries are
overflowing and foraging is plentiful. Player rolls 1d6 to determine
which Territory has such Goodness. Increase the Stability of the
Player who controls that Territory by one (+1). If no control, no
effect. This card must be played when drawn.
Change in Political Scene (1): A new party/tyrant/dictator has as-
sumed control of your Power and decides to wipe the slate clean.
• Return your in-hand cards to deck immediately and shuffle (you
don’t get to play any of the cards in your hand first).
• Return all your Objective markers to your pool, and re-select
(blindly) 3 new ones.
• Increase (yes, increase) your Stability by two (+2). This card must
be played when drawn
Change in Foreign Policy (1): The Player may use this against
another Player or for himself. The affected player randomly selects
one Victory Opportunity Objective to return to his Pool after blindly
selecting a new one. He may not return the one he just selected.
Conqueror (1): If the player playing this has an Elite Leader in
play, he may, for this AM, give that Leader an additional Activa-
tion, in essence, providing him with two separate, successive
“moves”. (He goes twice.) There is no need to play or use an extra
AM for this. This card must be played at the beginning of the initial
Activation. It may not be played by the same player in the same
Game-Turn as a Cunctator card. This card may be held in Hand
until played.
Conspiracy (1): This card may be played against any other Player.
The Player drawing the card designates any one, non-Elite on-map
leader as being a conspirator to overthrow his government. Remove
that leader from the map and reduce that Player’s Stability by one
(–1). This card must be played when drawn.
Cunctator (1): An Anglicized version of the Latin word for some-
one proficient at delaying. Playing this card allows the Player to
Withdraw from Land Combat an unlimited number of times during
the current Game-Turn, and without suffering the Stability loss for
withdrawing from a space in the Player’s Home Territory. This card
may not be played by the same Player in the same Game-Turn as a
Conqueror card. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Deus ex Machina (1): This acts as a card that is as a counter to a
card drawn/played by someone else. You may not play it against
your own draw/play. When played, this card totally cancels what-
ever card was just played by another player. It must be played be-
fore any use of the card-to-be-cancelled takes place. Both cards are
then discarded. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Dies Irae [Day of Wrath] (1): This card affects only the drawing
player. The gods are rather miffed. You must have done something
to put them in such a dither. You have a choice:
• Pay 2T to the local priests to mollify the gods, or
• Cancel the AM that was just selected; you do not get to go.
Diplomatic Mission into Interior (1): The player may look at
the actual strength of any two Tribal Counters that are within 4
connected Land Spaces of any of his combat units (but not Bar-
barian, Independent, or Allied units). He does not have to tell any-
one what he discovered. This card may be held in Hand until
played.
Disease—Only the Good Die Young (1): The player who draws
this card must roll one die, comparing that dieroll to the Campaign
Rating of his highest-rated Leader in the game. If the Dieroll is
lower than that rating, that Leader has died. Remove him. The high-
est-rated Leader is the leader whose Tactical Rating plus Campaign
Rating yield the highest total (if tied, it’s the owning Player’s choice).
Famine and Drought (2): Player rolls 1d6, consulting the Harvest/
Famine Table to determine which Territory has Famine and Drought.
Reduce the Stability of the Player who controls that Territory by
one (–1). If no control, no effect. This card must be played when
drawn.
Galley Tech-Artillery Engines (1): When this card is played its
provisions are in effect for that player for the rest of the Game-
Turn. The Player’s galley squadrons are each worth 3 BP in any
naval battles. This card may be held in Hand until played. Once
played, remove from game.
Galley Tech-The Corvus (1): This device allowed for easier, more
efficacious grappling, and, thus, boarding. When this card is played
its provisions are in effect for that player for the rest of the Game-
Turn. The Player’s galley squadrons are each worth 3 BP in any
naval battles. This card may be held in Hand until played. Once
played, remove from game.
Galley Tech-The Harpax (1): The Harpax, or harpago, was an ar-
tillery propelled grappling mechanism that was a great leap for-
ward in effecting boarding. When this card is played its provisions
are in effect for that player for the rest of the Game-Turn. The Player’s
galley squadrons are each worth 3 BP in any naval battles. This
card may be held in Hand until played. Once played, remove from
game.
Independent Expansion (1): The Player may place, at no cost, a
Garrison in any unoccupied Space within 4 Spaces (traced over land
only) of any of his combat units (but not Barbarian, Independent, or
Allied units). This card may be held in Hand until played.
Local Insurrection (1): Player removes any one garrison unit on
the map, belonging to any player. If no garrisons, it is No Event.
This card must be played when drawn
Mercenaries (3): The player may spend 2T (and only 2T) to hire
Mercenary units at the cost listed below. This is not an operation.
The mercenaries are placed with any Army that player has on the
map, but they all must go to the same location. All Mercenaries are
removed from play in the Removal Phase of the next Game-Turn,
regardless of their situation. Rome may not rent mercenaries; the

Roman Player treats this card as No Event. This card may be held in
Hand until played.
2T buys:
2 Merc LI, or
1 Merc Cav, or
1 Merc HI
Naval Ambush (2): This card may be played against any force us-
ing naval transport within three naval spaces—including Naval Tran-
sit Points but not Deep Sea Transit Points—of one of your Galley
Squadrons. If that force does not have at least one Galley Squadron
as an escort, the land units are completely destroyed. This card may
be held in Hand until played.
Pirates (2): The Player playing this card does one of the following:
• places a Pirate Fleet in any Naval Transit Movement Point; or
• places the Cilician Pirates in Tarsus (Cilicia/Asia) if Tarsus is
unoccupied.
 ...and then see 12.6 for full details. This card must be played when
drawn.
Poliorcates Effect, The (1): [So named for Demetrius Poliorcates,
“the Besieger”.] If the player wishes, he spends 2T and buys him-
self some heavy siege equipment, a Helepolis. Place the Helepolis
marker with any Army. When that Army is attacking a Town or
City, the Helepolis is worth 5 BP. It is never used in Defense. It may
be used in only one Attack. It may not be used to cover losses; it
may be used to be a Colossus statue, if you are so inclined. This
card may be held in Hand until played.
Pontus (1): Play of this card activates the Kingdom of Pontus, as
per 12.55. See that section for full instructions. This card may be
held in Hand until played. This card is removed from the game after
being played.
Raise the Militia (2): When played, first lower the player’s Stabil-
ity level by one (–1). Then, the player rolls the die (1d6) and halves
the result (rounding fractions up). The result is the number of Mili-
tia LI he may place in any province in his Home Territory, as long
as enemy combat units (including Barbarian units) exist anywhere
in that Territory. Lower the number raised by one (–1) if the player’s
Stability level is Unrest; if the Stability level is Turmoil, this card is
treated as No Event. Militia units do not cost anything to raise.
However, they are removed in the Removal Phase of the next Game-
Turn. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Rebellion (2): A Rebellion has occurred. To determine where the
Rebellion has occurred, and what kind of rebellion it is, roll two
dice (2d6) and consult the Rebellion Table (Charts and Tables) for
which territory or province has revolted, and the Rebellion Rules
(13.3) for what the effect is. This card must be played when drawn.
Revenues and Stability (4):
• If the Player drawing this has less than 3T in his Treasury when
drawn, subtract one (–1) from his Stability level.
• If the Player drawing this has more than 12T in his Treasury when
drawn, add one (+1) to his Stability level.
This card must be played when drawn
Slave Revolt (1): This card affects the drawing player, but only if
he has at least one Space with no land units in his home territory.
Your Slaves are Revolting. See 12.74.
This card must be played when drawn. If a slave revolt is already in
play against the drawing player, treat this card as No Event.
Soldier of Fortune (1): Non-Roman players may activate a Soldier
of Fortune Army as per 12.4. The Roman Player may not do so, but
instead this card enables him, under applicable circumstances to
use a Dictator. This is allowable if there is any enemy army in any
Space in his Home Territory when Rome is Active. When a Dicta-
tor is declared, the Roman Player removes from the board one of
his Leaders (his choice). He then blindly draws three Leaders from
those he is not using. He may place one of these three (his choice)
in Rome as the Replacement for the removed Leader. The other two
are returned to The Pool. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Spies (1): When played, the player may look at the cards in the
Hand of any one Player. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Stability and Opportunity (1): If your government is Stable, the
Player has a choice when playing this card:
• place an additional AM in The Pool at no extra cost to play, OR
• select an additional Opportunity Objective marker to use (unless
you already hold three).
May be Held in hand and played later.
Stability Check (2): This card may be played against any player
with a Stability Level of +3 or lower. The use of this card depends
on the current Stability Level of the Player against whom it is played.
If the only Player who would qualify is the drawing Player he is
forced to use this card on himself. If no one qualifies, the drawing
player reduces his Stability by one (–1). The possible ramifications
are:
• Unrest. This card is played against any other Player whose Sta-
bility Level is between 0 and +3. If the only Player who is at that
level (or worse) is the drawing Player he is forced to use this card
on himself. The affected player must pay 2T for bread and cir-
cuses to keep the locals amused. If he does not have the 2T, or
refuses to pay, lower his Stability by one (–1) for each Talent he
refuses to or cannot pay. If no one is at that low a level, reduce the
drawing Player’s Stability by one (–1).
• Disorder. This card is played against any other Player whose Sta-
bility Level is Unrest. If the only Player who is at that level (or
worse) is the drawing Player he is forced to use this card on him-
self. The designated player must, for his next (or current) Activa-
tion this phase move an Army worth at least 3 BP to his capital
(either capital if the power has two capitals), in addition to what
he already has there. If he does not succeed in doing so, lower his
Stability by one (–1) and remove all garrisons he has, regardless
of where they are. If no one is at that low a level, reduce the
drawing Player’s Stability by one (–1).
• Civil War. This card is played against any other Player whose
Stability Level is Turmoil. If the only Player who is at that level
(or worse) is the drawing Player he is forced to use this card on
himself. If no one is at that low a level, reduce the drawing Player’s
Stability by one (–1).
The next AM for the affected player is used to do only the following:
• Roll 1d6 for the allegiance of each Space occupied by the Player,
including galley squadrons. If the result is odd, remove at least
half of the Land units and half the galley squadrons, rounded up.
For any Space that is made vacant by such a removal, place a
garrison unit therein. If the die-roll result is even, that space re-
mains untouched.

DESIGN: Richard H. Berg
DEVELOPMENT: Neil Randall
DEVELOPMENTAL ASSISTANCE: Walter Wintar, Kevin Coombs,
Steve Carey
PLAYTESTING: Walter Wintar, Kevin Coombs, David Gee,
Michael Gouker, Aaron Lewicki, Barry Setser, John Harvey,
Jon Robertson Jim Anderson, Dave Longworth, Stephane
Brochu, Adam Freitag, Mark Beninger, David Deitch, Daniel
Howse, Daniel King, Greg Lipin, Pierre Touchette, Kent
Morrison, Brian Morris, John Staunton, Michel Boucher,
Jean-Philippe Davignon, Bob Seulowitz, Martin Sample,
Steve Jansen, Shawn Bozarth, David Fox, Norbert Brunhuber,
Luke Holbrook, Michael Haag, John Haag, Peter Card, John
Alsen, Kevin Caldwell, Dan Frick, Ralph Shelton and
Geoffrey Greatrex.
ART DIRECTOR: Rodger MacGowan
BOX ART AND PACKAGE DESIGN: Rodger MacGowan
MAP: Knut Grünitz
COUNTERS: Rodger MacGowan, Mark Simonitch and Mike
Lemick
CARDS AND RULES LAYOUT: Mark Simonitch
PROOFREADING: Bob Schindler, Tom Wilde
LIVING RULES PROOFREADING/EDITING: Neil Randall and
Steve Carey
PRODUCTION COORDINATION: Tony Curtis
PRODUCERS: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis,
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
Credits
• Remove all Leaders he has; replace with only one, newly drawn
Leader, who starts in his capital.
• Once all of the above is done, return the Stability Level of the
Player to –1/ Unrest.
Successor Wars Roll On (1): Little, it appears, kept the descen-
dants of the “Successors” of Alexander the Great from continuing
their efforts to be rulers of the Hellenistic World. The player who
plays this card must immediately (before doing his normal moves
for this activation) conduct Military Operations with any one Army
(but not Fleet) of Greek units that are in Greece, or start within 3
Spaces of Greece (if in play, the Soldier of Fortune army not be
used). The army must (move to and) stay within Greece; it cannot
go elsewhere. Other than that, it may do anything a normal moving
army would, including (and especially) attacking other Greek units,
armies, and possessions. It may pick up units as it moves, but not
those in Towns or Cities. However, it may attack units in Towns or
Cities in order to destroy or reduce the location (but it may not
engage in Sack and Plunder). Militia may not be recruited from
Battles resulting from this card being played. If the card is drawn
by the Greek Player, treat as a –2 to Stability instead. This card
must be played when drawn.
Tactical Surprise (2): This card gives its player a Battle Die-Roll
Shift of two (2) for any one Land Battle. This card may be held in
Hand until played.
Traitor (1): Player may take one card—randomly—from the hand
of any other player. This card may be held in Hand until played.
Tribal Resurgence (2): Draw, randomly and blindly, two Tribal
Units from those not in play and place each one, “?”-side up, in any
unoccupied Tribal Space (one Unit per space). If only one unoccu-
pied Tribal Space is available, place only one; if none available,
treat the card as No Event. This card must be played when drawn.