1-5 Players 
Ages 8+ 
30 minutes 
 
 
Game idea and aim of the game: At night while everyone is asleep, the animals of Australia are transformed in to dream birds that 
flutter in a wild dance around the sacred mountain Uluru. Each of the eight different birds has a very special dream of what they would 
like to do. Players try to help each bird fulfill their particular dream to make them happy because birds with unfulfilled dreams will be 
unhappy. The player with the happiest birds at the end of the game (i.e. fewest points) wins! 
 
Content: 5 player boards; 1 timer; 40 minus points (glass stones); 1 game board (printed on both sides, depending on game variant); 80 
request cards with different difficulty from 1 (easy) to 5 (very difficult): 8 level 1, 16 level 2, 24 level 3, 24 level 4 and 8 level 5; 40 Birds 
(pawns), 5 each in sets of 8 colors (Black, white, yellow, orange, red, blue, green, pink). 
 
Game Preparation: Place the main board in the middle of the table. Each player should take a player board and a set of 8 different 
colored birds (pawns). Place the timer and the minus points next to the game board. Shuffle the 80 request cards and place them in a face 
down stack next to the board (Note: for the first game it is recommended to just use request cards with difficulty levels 1 through 3 
leaving the others in the box). 
 
Gameplay: The game is played over 6 rounds (or until the cards run out if wanting a longer game). Each round is comprised of four steps: (1) 
Place request cards, (2) Placement of birds, (3) Evaluation, (4) Prepare for new round. 
 
1. 
Place request cards: A randomly picked starting player draws 8 request cards from the deck 
and puts each face up on the 8 spaces on the main board. Each card indicates the dream of the 
corresponding colored bird that the card is below. Notes: (1) The request cards differ in 
difficulty: level 1 are the easiest and level 5 are the most difficult. (2) Each card that has a 
neutral colored pawn depicted on it is considered the color of the bird that is above the card on 
the main board. (3) To avoid a negative point for a particular bird’s request, the specific pawn 
must be on the player’s board and must be in the correct position before time runs out. 
Example: Pink Bird 
wants to be next to 
Blue 
Bird 
and 
Yellow Bird wants 
to be placed across 
from White bird. 
2. 
Placement of birds: The starting player flips over the timer and all players simultaneous place their pawns on the spaces located on 
their player boards trying to accommodate the particular birds’ dream based on the request cards on the main board, before the timer 
runs out. For each pawn not placed on a player’s board when the timer runs out, he should take 1 glass stone as a penalty point. Notes: 
players should not look at other players’ boards during placement. When the timer runs out, no additional pawns may be placed. 
3. 
Evaluate: Now, starting from the left (white) bird and proceeding to the right, each request card is evaluated to see which players 
were able to accomplish the particular bird’s dream. One at a time, the starting player reads where each bird should actually sit. Each 
player should then announce if they have met the applicable request on their player board. If the request was not met, the player takes 
a glass stone from the supply. Proceed to the next bird until all 8 have been resolved and stones have been handed out for all 
unsuccessful requests. Note: Each round, a player can only receive a maximum 1 stone for each bird (i.e. if a player already received 
one due to the applicable pawn not being placed on their board, they do not take another one for not fulfilling that same birds request). 
4. 
New Round: Discard the face up request cards and draw 8 new cards placing them on the main board as before. The game ends when 
all of the request cards have been played. The player with the fewest points wins! Tied players share the victory. 
 
OVERVIEW OF REQUEST CARDS 
This bird just wants to be 
placed on the board. Any 
position is acceptable. 
(L1 card) 
 
 
Birds with these request cards want to 
be located in one of the designated 
circles depicted on the card. (L2 cards) 
This bird wants to 
be located next to 
the 
particular 
colored 
bird 
depicted. (L3 card) 
 
This bird wants to be 
located across from the 
particular colored bird 
depicted. (L3 card) 
This bird wants to share a 
corner with the particular 
colored 
bird 
depicted. 
(L3 card) 
 
This bird does not want to be 
located next to or across from 
the particular colored bird 
depicted. (L4 card #1) 
This bird wants to be at least two 
spaces away from the particular 
colored bird depicted. (L4 card #2) 
This bird wants the same thing as the 
particular colored bird depicted. (L4 
card #3) 
This bird wants the opposite of the particular colored bird depicted. (L5 card) Notes: There is no opposite of L1 cards, so any 
position is acceptable. Opposite of L2 cards are the non-colored spaces of the particular card. Opposite of L3 cards are any 
position that does not satisfy the particular position relative to the color depicted. Opposite of L4#1 card is sitting next to or 
across from the particular colored bird depicted. Opposite of L4#2 card is to not be 2 spaces away from 
the particular colored bird depicted. Opposite of L4#3 card is the opposite of the particular 
colored bird depicted. Opposite of L5 card is the same as the colored bird depicted. 
 

 
 
 
 
Variants 
1. For a longer game, include all cards and play 10 rounds. 
 
2. For a more challenging game, remove the level 1 request cards and play 9 rounds or remove the 
level 1 & 2 request cards and play 7 rounds. 
 
3. When playing with players of different skill levels, (a) flip the main board over so that the side with 
16 cards spaces is face up, (b) sort the request cards into two decks: the “Easier” deck comprised of 
level 1, level 2 & any 16-level 3 cards and the “Harder” deck comprised of the remaining cards, (c) 
shuffle each separately and place each of them next to the board, (d) play 5 rounds with the normal 
rules, but when placing request cards, deal 8 cards from the easy deck onto the light colored (top) 
spaces and 8 cards from the harder deck onto the darker colored (bottom) spaces, (e) more skilled 
players should attempt to complete the Harder deck requests, while the less skilled players attempt 
to complete the Easier deck requests (players should announce which cards they will be working on 
at the beginning of the game). 
 
 
 Easier Row 
 Harder Row 
 
4. Intermediate and advanced players can also use the side of the board with 16 card space and, using 
all cards, play 5 rounds attempting to assign two requests to certain bird each round. Before the 
game, players should determine how many birds they want to have two requests (1-8). Shuffle all 
request cards into one deck. When placing request cards, the lighter (top) spaces should be filled 
first and then, based on the number of birds agreed to have two requests, place additional cards on 
the darker (bottom) spaces accordingly. Any birds not placed receive two negative points. During 
evaluation, each colored bird should first be evaluated on accomplishing the top cards and then, 
after all birds have been check, move to the bottom cards (therefore any birds with two requests 
can provide up to two negative points). 
 
5. Solo play: Play the game as normal comparing your score against prior games.