When the gods first created the world, Dünya (Deun-ya), they gave it 
no order. Violence reigned, and only the strong eked out a desperate 
survival. This was the Time of Chaos. 
The dragons grew into a terrifying power, and eventually they stood 
unmatched and claimed dominion over Dünya. They instilled an order 
on the world, though one of suffering and misery. This was the Time of 
Darkness. 
Finally, one man, Surcil, caught the affection of Gahael, god of the 
changing seasons and the keeper of time. Gahael bestowed a portion 
of his power to Surcil, making him immortal, and Surcil threw off the 
oppressive rule of the dragons. He became the Timeless King and ruled 
Dünya for centuries, maintaining the peace. This was the Time of Order.
Now, the Timeless King has vanished, and his empire is in disarray. Why 
he left or to what fate he came, no one seems to know, though mysterious 
rumors have circulated. The political strings he so subtly pulled over the 
years have begun to unravel into an unstable power vacuum. This marks 
the Time of Change.
When Gahael gifted the Timeless King his power, he also forged a great 
iron clock that was placed in the Grande Plaza of Montbrielle. Gahael 
declared that the clock would continue to run as long as the Timeless 
King ruled. With his disappearance, the clock has come to a stop, the iron 
pendulum hanging perfectly still below the etched glass of its face. It is 
immovable by any hand that attempts to restart it. Legends hold that 
when a leader truly succeeds the Timeless King, they will visit the Grande 
Plaza and swing the pendulum, restarting the iron clock, and marking the 
beginning of a new era.
In Pendulum, each player is a powerful noble vying to succeed the 
Timeless King as the true ruler of Dünya. Each noble in the game is 
unique. Players command their workers, execute stratagems, and expand 
the provinces in their domain in real time to gain resources, votes, 
and move up the four victory tracks: power, prestige, popularity, and 
legendary achievement. Use your time wisely, as the player who has 
shown themselves the most fit to rule during the final Council will be 
declared the new Timeless Ruler!
Pendulum is a turnless real-time strategy game for 1-5 players. Players 
must use real time as a resource in managing their strategy to best their 
opponents, using time on different action types and balancing it with 
time spent planning and analyzing. Faster isn’t always better! The winner 
will be the player who manages and invests their time most effectively, 
not the player who acts the quickest.
The flow of the game in Pendulum may be different 
from other strategy board games you have played. 
Other than the periodic council phase, there are no 
turns or shared steps that all players are doing in 
sequence. Each player chooses and resolves actions 
on their own, so all players need to fully understand 
the rules in order to play. If this is the first game 
for any player, it is strongly recommended that 
you play at least one round untimed (see Removing 
Timers from the Game, page 20).
DESIGNED BY TRAVIS JONES
ART BY ROBERT LEASK
PendRulebook_r18.indd 1
PendRulebook_r18.indd 1
4/26/20 10:53 AM
4/26/20 10:53 AM

PLASTIC PIECES
	 15 common workers (3 per player) 
	 10 grande workers (2 per player) 
	 20 VP tokens (4 per player) 
	 5 hexagonal privilege markers 
	 5 octagonal achievement markers 
	 150 resource cubes 
(50 of each, 10 of each per player)
	 50 vote tokens
	 3 time markers
	 1 legendary achievement token
	 1 time token (optional) 
	 	 	 	 used for untimed games
CONTENTS
 A 	1 game board
 B 	1 council board 
C 	5 player mats (double sided) 
D 	10 ten-vote chips (2 per player)
E 	1 timer track board (optional)
GLOBAL SETUP
1 Place the game board (
 A ) in the center of the table, choosing the 
side based on your number of players. One side is for 1-3 players and 
the other is for 4-5 players.
2 Place the council board ( B ) anywhere in the play area and place the 
council summary tile nearby.
3 Place the 3 timers on the game board on their matching-color action 
area in the gold circles on the top row of each area (the purple action 
area has two gold frame circles per row; you can place the timer in 
either circle on the top row). Place the 3 purple time markers, one in 
each of the remaining open gold frame circles on the purple action 
area.
4 Shuffle the 10 achievement cards and place them face-down on 
the indicated slot on the board. Reveal the top card and place the 
legendary achievement token on the middle of the card.
PROVINCE CARDS
5 Shuffle the province cards and place them onto the province area. 
Deal the top 4 cards face-up onto the display.
STRATAGEM CARDS
6 Each player gains the stratagem cards with their character’s icon (the 
icon is found on the backs of these cards and the bottom-right corner 
of the front of each card).
COUNCIL REWARD CARDS
7 Place the grande worker council reward card onto the designated 
spot on the council board (it has a different back to differentiate it).
8 Separate out the 5 final council reward cards, which have a trophy 
icon in the upper-left corner and a red back. Place them face down on 
the council board in the designated spot to form the bottom of the 
deck (they will be the 5 cards available in the fourth council phase).
 	 	 	 Shuffle the remaining 25 council reward cards. Remove 10 of them 
from the game, returning them to the box. Deal 5 of them face-up 
onto the open spots on the council board, and place the last 10 face-
down on top of the final council reward cards to complete the deck.
TIMERS
	 1 purple 3-minute timer
	 1 green 2-minute timer
	 1 black 45-second timer
CARDS
	 5 advanced character reference cards
	 5 action summary cards 
	 1 council summary tile 
	 56 province cards 
	 10 achievement cards
	 40 stratagem cards 
(4 per character)
	 1 grande worker council 
reward card
	 25 council reward cards 
	 5 final council reward cards
Licinia, the Alchemist
Licinia has a knack for the occasional 
brilliant political maneuver. Rumors say this 
comes from mysterious divinations she is 
able to access.
Pay any 2 resources to pick up 
1 of your discarded stratagem 
cards and return it to your 
hand.
Pickup 1 Discarded
Licinia, the Alchemist
A strange and enigmatic figure, the Alchemist 
has powers that allow her to manipulate the 
fabric of reality, which seems to leave her 
always prepared with just the resources she 
needs to handle any obstacle.
The red and blue Production 
icons on your Player Mat both 
give you “wild” resources. 
These cannot be Votes. 
Pay any 2 resources to gain 
either 
, 
, or 
or
or
1. Set 
 order: 
 
(Discard all 
)
2. Gain rewards
3. Check max: 
4. Round setup: 
 
 
 
5. Place and/or move 
(optional)
Flip all timers, 
resume play
TRIGGER:
last knocked off
Cannot flip timers. Continue play 
until all players are done:
Placing 
 and Taking 
 Actions
Claiming the Achievement
Picking up/Playing 
?
If you need a replacement for a missing, broken, or 
malfunctioning component, please fill out the form at 
stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts
PendRulebook_r18.indd 2
PendRulebook_r18.indd 2

Because it is a real-time game, it is crucial to set 
up Pendulum so all players can easily reach the 
board. Above is the suggested layout, but feel free 
to adjust as each table and play space is different. 
What is important is that each player is able to 
easily reach the game board and their player mat.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 3
PendRulebook_r18.indd 3

PLAYER SETUP
Each player takes 1 worker action summary card, two 10-vote chips, a 
set of VP tokens (one each of red, blue, yellow, and grey), and a set of 
resource cubes (10 each of red, yellow, and blue) and 10 vote tokens 
(purple rectangles) that only they will have access to (and are limited 
to gaining during the game). Return any excess tokens to the box. 
Each player randomly chooses a character and takes that character’s 
player mat. One side of each player mat is for experienced players. We 
recommend using the basic sides for your first few games. 
1 	The player mat has the character’s symbol on it above their name. 
Players take their character’s set of 4 starting stratagem cards 
marked with the character’s symbol. Put all starting stratagem cards 
of unused characters back into the box.
2 	Players set their player mat in front of them, then places their worker 
action summary card nearby.
3 	Players sort their resource cubes by color and place them in piles 
next to their player mat. Add the two 10-vote chips to the pile of 
purple vote tokens (use this if you ever get more than 10/20 votes). 
Players then move the number of cubes of each resource indicated in 
the lower right-hand corner of each resource box onto their player 
mat. This indicates they are available for use as starting resources.
Players choose a color and take the following pieces: 
1 hexagonal privilege marker, 1 octagonal achievement marker, 3 
common workers, and 2 grande workers.
Players place 
4 	One VP token at the start (far left) of each of their victory point tracks.
5 	The octagonal achievement marker next to their player mat.
6 	The hexagonal privilege markers on the privilege track on the board 
in random order (see image on page 3).
There are 5 basic characters and 5 advanced 
characters (advanced characters each have their 
own Reference Card). It is recommended to only play 
an advanced character if you have played Pendulum 
before. If you play an advanced character, be sure to 
read through their Reference Card before playing. 
PendRulebook_r18.indd 4
PendRulebook_r18.indd 4

WORKERS
 A 	Each player places 1 common 
worker and 1 grande worker 
in the center section of their 
player mat. These are in play and 
available for actions.
	 	 	 Players place their other grande worker next 
to the council board. (These pieces only 
come into the game through the grande 
worker council reward, which replaces a 
common worker with a grande worker.)
 B 	Players place their 2 remaining 
common workers anywhere next 
to their player mat. These are not 
in play, but can be brought into 
play by playing a specific stratagem card.
Finally, return the timer track board and time 
token to the box, unless you plan to use them (see 
Removing Timers from the Game, page 20).
If you are playing a 2 or 3 player game, be sure 
to read the rules for this (see 2-3 Player Games, 
page 20).
Start Player: Pendulum is a real-time, turnless 
game. There is no start player! Please enjoy 
never waiting for someone else to take their 
turn while you play.
BEGINNING PLAY
When you are ready to begin, in 
 order (see 
Imperial Privilege, page 7), each player places 1 
grande worker on an eligible bottom-row action 
space. Then, each player places 1 common 
worker in the same order. All normal placement 
rules apply (see Worker Actions, page 9). When 
everyone is ready, flip all 3 timers to each 
bottom row, and begin play! 
If any player is playing for the first time, we 
recommend that you either play with frequent 
timer pauses or that you play the first round 
without timers (see Removing Timers from the 
Game, page 20). 
BASIC
ADVANCED
GAMBAL
THE BRIBER
 
 
THE INSURGENT
 
 
Gambal was not born with a noble title. Nonetheless, he 
continues to claw his way to power using untraditional 
means. Gambal’s longest victory track is Popularity, as 
he depends on the favor of the people more so than 
Prestige or Power.
BOLK
THE CHAMPION
 
THE WARMONGER 
 
Bolk served as the First General for the Timeless King 
before Surcil’s disappearance. The minotaur plans to 
leverage the allegiance of the empire’s armies to fight his 
way to the throne. Bolk’s longest victory track is Power, as 
he must leverage his strength on the battlefield to secure 
his place as the new Timeless King.
MESOAT
THE JUSTICAR 
 
THE PACIFIST
 
Mesoat, one of the Sphinxes from the sky city of 
Almadinat, is the current High Priest of Gahael. While 
some common folk have never even glimpsed a Sphinx in 
the flesh, the nobility of the empire have always looked 
upon the ancient creatures with great respect. Mesoat’s 
longest victory track is Prestige, as the Sphinx’s path to 
the throne relies on consolidating the favor of the noble 
ruling class.
LICINIA
THE IMPLACABLE 
 
THE ALCHEMIST 
 
Licinia is famously ruthless and will do whatever it takes 
to claim power. Rumors say she strives to unlock dark 
powers to aid in her quest for the throne. Always the 
opportunist, Licinia pursues all three victory tracks equally.
DHRENKIR
THE INSIDIOUS 
 
THE TYRANT 
 
Dhrenkir seeks to reinstate a version of the order that 
existed before the Timeless King, when dragons ruled 
Dünya. Though most historians view this as a dark 
time, many have begun to flock to the strength and 
order Dhrenkir promises now that the world faces 
such uncertainty. Dhrenkir’s longest victory track is 
Popularity (Prestige when played as The Tyrant), as the 
dragon requires the backing of the people to overcome 
the entrenched forces that do not wish to see a dragon 
return to power.
 Important: You may never have more than 
4 total workers (including grande workers).
PendRulebook_r18.indd 5
PendRulebook_r18.indd 5

VOTES
GAME BASICS
Pendulum is played over 4 rounds 
of real-time activity. After each 
round a council phase takes place, 
which is not played in real time. 
After the council phase of the 4th 
round, the game ends and a winner 
is declared based on total victory 
points (see Game End, page 19).
Limited Inventory: The amount of 
resources/victory points you can 
have at one time is limited. If you 
gain more resources than the 10 
cubes you have access to or gain 
victory points that would move 
you off the end of the track, the 
additional resources/victory points 
are forfeited. Votes are the one 
exception to this—there is no limit 
to the number of votes a player can 
have. (If you acquire more than 10, 
use a 10-vote chip.)
Trading: You cannot trade 
resources, votes, workers, or 
anything else with other players.
Action Costs: Three types of 
actions in the game always have a 
cost: Worker Actions in the purple 
and green action areas require 
gold, Conquer Province on the 
black action area requires military, 
and Pick Up Stratagems requires 
culture. Certain stratagem cards 
have a cost as well.
Costs on cards are shown preceding 
a black arrow. You must always pay 
the cost of an action before taking 
the reward. You can only pay the 
cost and gain the reward once. For 
example, if you play the Stratagem 
card pictured, you cannot choose to 
pay 6 
 to gain 4 
MILITARY
CULTURE
GOLD
VOTES
RESOURCES
POWER
PRESTIGE
POPULARITY
LEGENDARY 
ACHIEVEMENT
VICTORY TRACKS
VICTORY TRACKS, RESOURCES, & VOTES 
Personal Resource Bank vs. Player 
Mat: The 10 of each resource avail-
able to you can be considered your 
own personal bank. Resources and 
votes gained from your bank are 
moved to your player mat. Only the 
resources and votes on your player 
mat may be spent. You gain from 
and discard to your personal bank. 
No other resources are available to 
you, nor can you have more than 10 
of each resource. Votes are unlimit-
ed and are not considered resources. 
Use your 10-vote chips to indicate 
vote quantities greater than 10.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 6
PendRulebook_r18.indd 6

Workers: There are 2 types of workers in the game—common workers 
 
and grande workers 
. The icon 
 indicates either common or grande. 
Grande workers function just like common workers except they can be 
placed in the top gold frame of an action space, even if other workers are 
already there.
Production: The reward for certain actions is a production icon. This 
means you gain all the resources and votes shown on that icon on your 
player mat, as well as on province cards tucked below that icon. 
Council Phase: While most of Pendulum is played in real-time, there are 
breaks in the action when the council is called. During the council phase, 
no timers can be flipped, and the real-time flow of the game is put on 
hold. Council is called when the last purple time marker is knocked off 
the board. The game ends after the council phase of the 4th round.
Purple Time 
Markers
Grande Worker
Common Worker
Any Worker
Imperial Privilege: The privilege 
track includes the symbol 
Whenever you see a reference to 
“
 order” this refers to the current 
order of players on the privilege 
track, with the highest rank being 
1st. This order is reset each council 
phase based on votes.
Council Rewards
PendRulebook_r18.indd 7
PendRulebook_r18.indd 7

TIMERS, ROWS, AND ACTION SPACES
The game board has three separate action areas: purple, green, and black. Each area has its own set of action spaces and its own timer that governs the 
actions taken there.
Every action space has a top gold 
frame, where workers are initially 
placed, and a bottom box, which 
shows the rewards gained from 
taking that action.
Every row of action spaces has one 
or more gold frame circles. If a timer 
is on one of these gold frame circles, 
the timer is considered to be on that 
row. Whether the sand in the timer is 
still running or not is irrelevant, what 
matters is which row the timer is on.
Full details on using workers will be 
provided later (see Worker Actions), but 
to summarize—you will plan to take an 
action by placing a worker on the row 
that does not have the timer, and then 
take that action when the timer is later 
flipped onto that row. This process is 
covered by 2 simple rules:
•	You can only move workers on or off 
action spaces on a row that the timer is 
NOT on. 
•	You can only take actions with workers 
on a row that the timer IS on. 
Full details on using timers are 
provided later (see Untimed Actions), 
but here are a few rules to keep in 
mind:
•	Never flip a timer in place—it always 
flips from one row to the other in its 
area.
•	Timers can never be flipped while the 
sand is still running (unless you are 
playing an untimed round).
•	Flipping a timer is assumed to occur 
instantaneously. There is no period 
that both rows are considered to be 
without a timer regardless of how 
fast you can move a worker, or how 
slowly the timer is flipped.
Each action area consists of 2 
identical rows of action spaces. 
Both rows are used by all players to 
take actions.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 8
PendRulebook_r18.indd 8

Actions: There are no turns in Pendulum. You may take whatever action 
you wish at any time. Options are:
•	Worker Actions: Move a worker around the action areas. The status of 
the timers is important in determining what you can do at any given 
time.
•	Untimed Actions: Take an action that does not rely on timers or workers 
at all.
No Required Actions: No actions are ever required to be taken. Just 
because a timer has run out does not mean it has to be flipped. Just 
because a worker is on a row with a timer does not mean you have to take 
an action with that worker. It is up to you to decide what you want to do 
at any time.
One Action at a Time: Once you start an action, you must finish it before 
starting another one. For example, you may take the Conquer Province 
action and, while deciding which province card to gain, remember that 
you want to move a worker from one spot to another. You must fully 
complete the Conquer Province action that you started before moving 
the worker.
Pay First: Whenever you take an action with a cost, you must always pay 
the cost before resolving the action. Playing in real-time, you are more 
likely to forget the negative part of an action (paying the cost) than the 
positive part (getting a reward). Be sure to pay the cost first to ensure this 
step isn’t forgotten!
Designer’s Note: Unlike many other real-time games, 
you’ll find there are not many moments where you 
are trying to beat a buzzer or a countdown. With the 
various options for actions arrayed across different 
timers the intent is that you’ll still find the game tense 
as time is constantly slipping away, but it is different 
from the stress of trying to “beat the clock”. There may 
also be periods where you are waiting for a timer to 
finish before you can take your next action. Use these 
times to take a breath.
Designer’s Note: Take time to think through what 
you wish to do next. While the game may feel hectic 
at times, it is important to remember to take time for 
this! You will see a return on this investment in the 
long run.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 9
PendRulebook_r18.indd 9

WORKER ACTIONS
First, let’s walk through an 
example of the full process of 
taking a worker action—see the 
brown box on the right.
There are just 2 basic rules that 
govern this process:
	 •	You can only move workers on 
or off action spaces on the row 
the timer is NOT on. 
	 •	You can take actions with 
workers on the row the timer IS 
on.
These rules are summarized on the 
worker actions summary card. 
Note: Some advanced character 
abilities break these rules, and take 
precedence.
The white player places one 
of their available workers 
on the top gold frame of the 
action space on the row that does 
not have the timer.
Once the timer has finished 
running, they flip it from its 
current row over to the other row 
of action spaces, where their 
worker is.
At some point before the 
timer is flipped back to the 
top row, the white player shifts 
their worker down from the top 
gold frame to the bottom rewards 
box, pays 2 gold, and gains 2 
popularity.
The white player wishes to gain the reward of 2 popularity from the 
action space in the green action area.
Once the timer has finished 
running, they flip the timer 
off of its current row and onto the 
other row of action spaces.
They remove the worker from 
the action space and place it 
elsewhere.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 10
PendRulebook_r18.indd 10

MOVING WORKERS
You can only move workers on or off action spaces on the row the 
timer is not on.
As you plan your actions, you can move any available worker onto the top 
gold frame of an action space or your player mat if you’re not sure what 
you want to do with them yet. You are free to change your mind at any 
time and move a worker out of an action space to another location, as 
long as the timer is not on that worker’s row when you move them.
There are some important placement rules for workers.
You cannot place a common worker onto the top gold frame of 
an action space in the green and purple action areas if any other 
workers are already there. No worker is blocked by other workers in 
action spaces in the black area, as indicated by the icons there.
Grande workers are never blocked by other workers (common or grande).
These rules do not apply to the bottom rewards box. Workers are never 
blocked from moving from a top box of an action to the corresponding 
bottom box.

Action Area 
Green or Purple 
Action Areas
TAKING WORKER ACTIONS
You can only take actions with workers on the row that the timer 
is on.
When the timer is on a row, workers on that row can take their actions. 
Shift the worker down from the top gold frame to the bottom rewards 
box, pay any cost in between, and then gain the reward shown.
•	All action spaces in the green and purple areas have a cost of 
. This cost must be paid before claiming the reward shown.
•	Action spaces in the black area have no gold cost. However, 
there is one special action there, “Conquer Province”, that has a 
cost of 4
•	If you no longer wish to perform the action, or you can’t afford its cost, 
you can forgo resolving the action with a worker. However, because 
you can only move workers off an action space when the timer is not 
on the row, you must wait until the timer is flipped to move the worker 
elsewhere.
Remember, you can only move workers off an action space when the 
timer is not on the row. This means that after taking a worker action you 
cannot move the worker elsewhere until the timer is flipped off the row. 
Until that time, it is “stuck” in the bottom box. This represents the time it 
took for your worker to carry out your commands.
You only have to start an action while the timer is on the worker’s row, 
not finish it. As long as you have shifted your worker down to the bottom 
rewards box to begin the action (paying its cost), you may complete it 
(gaining its rewards) even if the timer flips off of the row before you are 
done.
Designer’s Note: Once you’ve played 
Pendulum a few times, see the 
Advanced Variant for a simple revision 
to the worker placement rules that 
makes the game more challenging.
Green or Purple 
Action Areas
Pendulum’s rules for “moving workers” and “taking worker actions” may be 
different than other strategy games you’ve played. In Pendulum, moving a 
worker onto an action space will never allow you to immediately take that 
action. You can only take worker actions when your worker is on an action 
space and then a timer is flipped onto that row containing your worker. In 
other words, the action is available only when the timer moves onto the 
row containing your worker, not when the worker moves onto the action. 
Understanding this distinction is crucial to understanding the flow of 
Pendulum.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 11
PendRulebook_r18.indd 11

On the row the timer is on:
In the top gold frame: This worker 
can take the action they’re on.
In the bottom box: There is nothing 
this worker can do. It is “stuck” 
until the timer is flipped off its row.
On the row the timer is not on:
In the top gold frame: This worker 
is free to move anywhere else, or 
it can take an action later once the 
timer is flipped onto its row.
In the bottom box: This worker is 
free to move anywhere else. 
FORGETTING ABOUT WORKERS
Over the course of the game, you will inevitably forget to do something with one of your workers before a 
timer is flipped. Don’t feel bad when this happens—playing a perfect game of Pendulum is nearly impossible. 
Mistakes like this are part of the game. The winner will not be the player who never makes a mistake, but the 
player who manages their mistakes better than their opponents do.
Forgetting to move or take a worker action does not “break the rules.” All the rules still apply just the same. For 
example, if you forget to move a worker off the bottom box of an action space before the timer flips back onto 
the row, your worker is now “stuck” in the bottom box and cannot be moved off until the timer is flipped off the 
row.
You do not need to remember what you planned for a worker to apply the rules correctly. There are only four 
possible states a worker can be in, and they apply the same whether you planned to end up there or not:
Issues only arise when you forget to do a required step in the game—for 
example, if you forget to pay for an action or forget to gain the reward for 
an action. If this happens, don’t stress, you are just playing for fun! Do 
your best to rectify what was forgotten and move along with the game.
If you ever need to pause the game due to some kind of 
urgent matter that has come up, or to look up a rule 
question that is too significant to temporarily resolve by 
just claiming privilege, quickly set all three timers on their 
side. Do this the same way for all timers so that you know 
which end should be on top when you stand the timers up 
again. This will effectively pause the game so you can resolve 
whatever issue is at hand. When you are ready to resume 
play, stand all the timers back up at the same time.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 12
PendRulebook_r18.indd 12

CONQUER PROVINCE
Certain actions in the game, such as an action in the black area, give you 
the reward of conquering a province. When you gain this reward, draw 
one of the face-up province cards from the province area or a face-down 
card from the top of the province deck. If you’re feeling courteous, you 
can immediately deal out a new province card to replace the one you 
took, but it’s not required (see Refresh Province Cards, page 15). 
Then tuck the province card into any slot at the bottom of your player 
mat. Align the card so it shows the same color production icon as the slot 
on your player mat that you place it under. Note, the card may show a 
different resource icon or vote icon—it’s the color of the production icon 
(the background color) that must be aligned. If you have already tucked 
cards under the chosen slot, the new province card is tucked under the 
existing cards. Once a province card has been placed in this way, it cannot 
be moved or “reassigned” later.
You may play an unlimited number of province cards to each slot, 
however during each council phase you will have to discard down to two 
per slot.
Note that while the card has a different resource/vote icon 
within the yellow octagon, this placement is perfectly legal. 
What matters is that the card is aligned with the yellow 
octagon background.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 13
PendRulebook_r18.indd 13

Designer’s Note: Because players need 
to flip a timer to start or finish an action 
on the other row, you’ll find the timers 
effectively regulate themselves once 
play is moving. There is no rule requiring 
timers to be flipped, but, nonetheless, 
there is almost always someone eagerly 
waiting to flip a timer once it’s finished.
PLAY STRATAGEM
Every player has a hand of 
stratagem cards, which they 
can play at any time. Simply 
place a card into the “Discarded 
Stratagems” section of your player 
mat. If there is a cost, pay it first, 
then gain the reward shown. The 
card cannot be played again until it 
is returned to your hand (through 
the Pick Up Stratagems action).
PICK UP STRATAGEMS
This action costs 5
 . After 
paying the culture cost, pick up 
all your discarded stratagems and 
return them to your hand. You do 
not have to have played all of your 
stratagems prior to taking this 
action. 
UNTIMED ACTIONS
Untimed actions do not require a worker and do not rely on a timer in any 
way. Players can carry them out during a round whenever they wish.
FLIP TIMER
Every action area has 2 rows of action spaces with one or more 
gold frame circles where the timer for that action area can be 
placed. If a timer has finished, any player may flip it to the 
opposite row (never flip a timer in place). Flipping a timer is not 
announced or coordinated with other players, and it’s perfectly 
legal to let a finished timer sit until you’re ready to flip it. You 
cannot move a worker from one row of an action area to the 
other row on the same action area as the timer flips.
The purple action area has 2 gold frame circles for each row of 
action spaces (to hold the purple time marker tokens). When 
you flip the timer you must use it to physically knock a time marker token 
off the action area, and then place the timer in the now-open circle. If 
after doing this there are no time marker tokens left on either row of the 
purple action area, you must “call council” (see Call Council, page 16).
PendRulebook_r18.indd 14
PendRulebook_r18.indd 14

With the disappearance 
of the Timeless King, the 
remaining nobles convene a 
great council at the start of 
each season to manage the 
business of the kingdom.
CLAIMING ACHIEVEMENT
At any time, if you have resource cubes and vote tokens equal to or 
greater than all those shown on the top half of the current achievement 
card, you may claim the achievement. You don’t lose the resources and 
votes.
Place your octagonal achievement marker into one of the open spots 
on the card. If the legendary achievement token is still on the card and 
you haven’t taken it in a previous round, you may take it and gain your 
legendary achievement victory point. Other than possibly gaining one 
specific final council rewards card, this is the only way to gain 
your legendary achievement victory point, which is required to 
win the game. If the legendary achievement token has already been 
taken this round, or if you choose not to take it, you gain the complete 
reward shown in the brown ribbon on the bottom of the card. You are 
choosing one of these options; you cannot gain both the legendary 
achievement token and the bottom rewards box.
Leave your achievement marker on the card—you can only claim an 
achievement once each round. You retrieve your achievement marker 
during the council phase.
REFRESH PROVINCE CARDS
At any time, if there are open slots for province cards on the board, any 
player may deal cards off the top of the deck, placing them face up to fill 
the slots. This action can be done during the council phase as well.
Players must immediately “call 
council” when a player flips the 
purple timer and knocks the last 
purple time marker cube off its 
space (not just from off that row).
After calling council, players may 
continue taking actions. There 
is no time limit, and no timers may be flipped. Players continue taking 
actions until they all agree they are done. All normal rules for taking 
actions still apply. If more than one player wishes to act last, break this 
tie by “claiming privilege” (see Claiming Privilege, page 18). Once all 
players are done taking actions, do not remove workers—instead, simply 
proceed to the council phase.
TRIGGER:
last knocked off
Cannot flip timers. Continue play 
until all players are done:
Placing 
 and Taking 
 Actions
Claiming the Achievement
Picking up/Playing 
PendRulebook_r18.indd 15
PendRulebook_r18.indd 15

Once you have called council and all players have finished taking their actions, proceed to the council phase. 
The steps to be taken are summarized on the “Council Phase” side of the council summary card. Once the 
council phase begins, players may not take any action, including playing stratagem cards or moving 
workers (unless specified elsewhere), until the phase ends and play resumes. There is one exception—players 
may deal new province cards during the council phase.
1.	Players arrange their hexagonal privilege markers on the privilege track in order from most 
(1st) to fewest (last) votes. Break ties in reverse 
 order (i.e., whoever is currently ranked 
lowest gets to move ahead). Then all players discard all vote tokens. 
2.	All players gain their rewards in 
 order as shown on the privilege track. All players gain a 
council rewards card. Do not replenish the cards as they are gained. 1st place gains an 
additional 2 victory points (excluding the legendary achievement victory point) of their choice 
(they don’t have to be the same). 2nd and 3rd place (only 2nd in a 2-3 player game) gain an 
additional victory point (excluding the legendary achievement victory point) of their choice.
	 	 •	 The reward in the bottom left 
corner of the council board is always 
available for all players, even if it has 
previously been chosen this council 
phase. Gain one victory point of 
your choice (excluding legendary 
achievement).
	 	 •	If you select the grande worker 
reward (with a 
 symbol in the 
top left corner) it takes effect 
immediately and then is flipped 
over. This card may not be chosen 
again this council phase, but it is 
flipped back over after the phase is 
complete.
	 	 •	 Cards with a 
 in the top left 
corner (and a red border) take effect 
immediately and then are removed 
from the game.
	 	 •	 Cards with a 
 icon in the top 
left corner (and a blue border) are 
permanent stratagem cards. Add the 
card to your hand of stratagems (not 
your discard pile). This card is just 
like any other stratagem—play it at 
any time once play resumes. Return 
the card to your hand with the Pick 
Up Stratagems action.
	 	 •	 In the 4th council phase, the final 
council reward cards (with a 
 
symbol in the top left corner) will 
be available. When you select one 
of these cards, pay any cost shown 
and gain the reward shown. Then, 
remove the card from the game. You 
may not select a card if you cannot pay its cost. 
You may not select the card that gives a legendary 
achievement if you already have a legendary 
achievement victory point.
	 	 •	 See Explanation of Action Spaces & Cards, page 22, 
for details on the cards.
1. Set 
 order: 
 
(Discard all 
)
2. Gain rewards
3. Check max: 
4. Round setup: 
 
 
 
5. Place and/or move 
(optional)
Flip all timers, 
resume play
Designer’s Note: You’ll find 
some Council Reward cards 
are generally better than 
others. This is intentional, 
as one of the benefits of 
having more votes is the 
privilege of choosing your 
reward first.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 16
PendRulebook_r18.indd 16

Because the rest of the game 
is played in real time, players 
should take advantage of the 
breaks for the council phase to 
use the restroom or attend to 
other personal needs.
3.	 Check each slot at the bottom of your player mat­—you can have a maximum of two cards in each slot. If any 
slot is over the maximum, remove cards of your choice from the game to bring the number of cards down to 2.
4.	 If this is the 4th council phase, then the game is over (see Game End, page 19). You can tell it is the 4th 
council phase because there will be no more council reward cards to deal out.
	 	 If the game is not over, then set up for the next round:
	 	 •	If the grande worker council reward card was chosen, flip it back over.
	 	 •	Remove any unchosen council reward cards from the game (excluding the grande worker card) and deal out 
a new set of 5.
	 	 •	Remove the face-up province cards on the province area from the game and deal out 4 new cards.
	 	 •	All players retrieve their achievement marker if they played it last round. Remove the achievement card 
from the game and deal out a new achievement card and place the legendary achievement token onto the 
new card (whether it was taken or not).
	 	 •	Place each purple time marker token back onto an open gold frame circle in the purple action area.
5.	 At this time, you may move or place any workers. Resolve any conflicts in 
 order. All placement rules still 
apply (workers cannot be removed from or placed onto a row with a timer on it). You still cannot take any 
other actions at this time (i.e., you cannot take actions with workers or play cards.)
6.	 If any timers are still running at this point, wait for them to finish. Once all players are ready, flip all three 
timers (per the usual rules—flip them from their current row to the other row on their board). Resume play.
 
PendRulebook_r18.indd 17
PendRulebook_r18.indd 17

CLAIMING PRIVILEGE
Because Pendulum is a real-time game, there is the potential for two 
players to attempt to perform the same action simultaneously and 
come into conflict. Rather than letting things devolve into fisticuffs, 
all disputes in the game are resolved cleanly and civilly. If there is any 
question of who “got there first”, the players in question resolve the 
issue through the privilege track. Whoever is ranked higher in 
 order 
“claims privilege” and resolves the dispute in their favor.
For two actions to be considered simultaneous, they do not have to be 
literally happening at the exact same moment. We recommend that 
you allow for an approximate one second grace period in considering 
actions to be simultaneous. This grace period is to discourage players 
from frantically moving pieces around the board, and to allow for a 
more relaxed atmosphere of play. You will win Pendulum through 
shrewd planning and decision-making, not through hair-trigger 
reflexes. Of course, your group is free to disregard this rule if you are 
looking for a more intense style of play.
Below are some examples of potential simultaneous actions/disputes:
•	Conquering the same province at the same time.
•	Claiming the legendary achievement token at the same time.
•	Placing a common worker on the top gold frame of an action space in 
the green or purple action area at the same time.
•	Moving a worker onto an action space at the same time that another 
player flips a timer onto its row.
You do not claim privilege to break a tie in votes during the council phase 
(break those ties in reverse 
 order).
This is not an exhaustive list. Players may claim privilege to resolve other 
matters of dispute that they don’t have time to argue over/dissect as the 
game continues. It’s generally more fun to keep the game moving than to 
try to pause and hash out details of a problem, but of course your group 
can make their own decision on this! 
Designer’s Note: Every table is different, 
but generally the issue of Claiming Privilege 
only arises once or twice a game, and many 
times it never even comes up. Nonetheless, 
it’s of course important to have a rule to 
clear up these conflicts quickly in real-time.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 18
PendRulebook_r18.indd 18

GAME END
The game ends after the council phase of the 4th round. If any player 
has advanced all of their victory tracks into the section on the 
parchment at the end of the tracks, this player is declared the winner 
and the new Timeless Ruler. If multiple players qualify as the winner, the 
tie is broken by the player with the most victory points in the parchment 
(for example, the player pictured has a score of 5). If still tied, the winner 
is the top player in 
 order.
If no player has advanced all of their VP tokens into the parchment 
section of the victory point tracks, then the winner is one of the players 
who have their legendary achievement victory point. Look at each of 
these players’ lowest-scoring victory track (i.e., the track furthest from 
the parchment). The player whose lowest-scoring track is closest to the 
parchment is the winner. If tied, compare the next victory point track, 
and so on. If still tied, the winner is the top player in 
 order. 
If no player has a legendary achievement victory point, there is no 
winner, and the kingdom descends into civil war for an age. 
Designer’s Note: You will generally find each 
resource has one victory track that it is most 
effective at advancing. Military for power 
(most provinces can give power), culture for 
prestige (via the stratagem that gives prestige), 
and gold for popularity (via action spaces that 
give popularity). The tracks are color coded 
to remind players of this during play (i.e., the 
icons for military and power are all red).
C
In the example shown, Player A is the winner because Player B does not have 
their legendary achievement victory point, and Player C’s lowest-scoring 
track is further from the parchment than the Player A’s lowest-scoring track.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 19
PendRulebook_r18.indd 19

REMOVING TIMERS FROM THE GAME
You can always play any given round 
in Pendulum untimed (i.e., without the 
“real-time” element of the timers). The 
timers are still used, but you ignore the 
sand in them. For some players, this may 
simply be the preferred way to play. If this 
is the first game for any player, it is 
recommended to play at least the first 
round untimed.
Place the timer track board anywhere in 
the play area and place the time token next 
to it. To start play, place the time token on 
the first space of the timer track and flip 
the indicated timers as usual. Players now 
act simultaneously in real time to take any 
actions they wish, with all normal rules 
applying. However, there is no time limit 
(and players cannot flip timers). Players 
can take as much time as they wish and 
plan their actions, move workers, play 
cards, ask rules questions, etc. Once all 
players have finished their actions, move 
the time token to the next space and flip 
the indicated timers. Again, players take 
any actions they wish simultaneously before the game moves to the next 
space on the timer track. Once you reach the end of the timer track, Call 
Council. After the council phase, if you want to continue this way, place 
the time token at the first space again. Flip the timers to another row in 
their action area and proceed.
You can play the entire game of 
Pendulum this way if you wish. 
Also, you can flip back and forth 
between timed and untimed mid-
game. Simply decide at the end 
of each council phase whether 
the next round will be timed or 
untimed.
2-3 PLAYER GAMES
Use the side of the game board for 1-3 players, as shown in the top left 
and bottom right corners of the board.
At the start of the game, place the legendary achievement token on top of 
the council rewards deck rather than placing it on the first achievement 
card. The legendary achievement token is not available the first 
round. Players may still claim the achievement, but can only gain the 
bottom reward. Add the legendary achievement token back into the game 
during the first council phase as usual.
2 Player Games Only: Choose a player color not being used. This will 
become a neutral player for the game. During setup, place 1 neutral worker 
on each of the 4 smaller single action spaces remaining in the green and 
purple areas as shown below. These workers will remain there for the game, 
blocking common workers from entering those action spaces.
Also, place the neutral hexagonal privilege marker on the privilege track 
in last place. The neutral player will compete for the privilege track every 
council phase with 3 votes. Place 3 vote tokens next to their privilege 
marker as a reminder. If tied in votes, break the tie as usual (the player 
currently ranked lower will move ahead).
With only 2 players, the wait time between actions may feel longer and less 
active without other players to observe. If this is the case for your group, 
try switching to an untimed game (see Removing Timers from the Game).
TIMER TRACK
& CALL COUNCIL
Since actions are happening 
simultaneously, claim privilege 
as usual to resolve any conflicts.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 20
PendRulebook_r18.indd 20

ADVANCED VARIANT
Over time you may find your skill at Pendulum increasing, and you may 
even reach the ends of all four victory tracks prior to the final council 
phase. If so, you may want to play with these advanced variant rules to 
provide a greater challenge and to allow for additional scoring.
These rules make the game slightly more complicated and are not 
recommended for new players. Not every player in the same game has to 
use the advanced rules. This can be a good way to level the playing field 
between experienced and newer players. These two rules are intended to 
be used together, but if you strongly prefer the original worker placement 
rules you may still use those and play with the Glory scoring variant.
WORKER PLACEMENT
A player using the advanced variant rules may never place more 
than one of their own workers in the same top gold frame of an 
action space. This applies to both grande and common workers. Other 
placement rules are unchanged: Grande workers may be placed in action 
spaces where other players’ workers are, and you may place a common 
worker on an action space in the black area even if other players’ workers 
are already there.
This rule does not apply to the bottom rewards box. 
Workers are never blocked from entering the bottom box 
from the top gold frame of an action space, including 
when using the pictured stratagem card of the advanced 
character Gambal the Insurgent.
GLORY
If you are using the advanced variant rules, and you gain victory points 
on a track that you are already at the very end of (i.e., you cannot gain 
any more of that victory point), you may choose to gain 1 glory 
for each victory point you gain past the end of the track. Glory is 
represented by placing a resource cube (either from your personal supply 
or your player board) onto the corresponding victory point track (match 
colors). For example, if you are at the end of the power track, and then 
gain three more power, you can take 3 of your red cubes (which you use 
to represent your military resources) and place them onto the power 
victory point track. 
This will permanently reduce the cubes you have available for this 
resource, and thus reduce the maximum amount of this resource you can 
ever have. Once you convert a resource cube to glory you may not convert 
it back. Glory is not victory points. If you take an action that costs victory 
points, you may not use glory to pay this cost. Paying victory points on 
a track on which you have glory does not reduce or impact glory you 
have gained on that track. You cannot gain glory for the Legendary 
Achievement victory point track.
At the end of the game, if there is a tie in victory points for the winner, 
the 1st tie breaker is glory cubes. If still tied, then proceed to 
 order to 
break the tie, skipping any other tie breaker conditions.
Green 

Action Area 
Green 
:
PendRulebook_r18.indd 21
PendRulebook_r18.indd 21

EXPLANATION OF ACTION SPACES & CARDS
COSTS
Some actions in the game cost a “wild” resource. You can pay this cost with any combination of 
military, gold, and culture that totals the number shown. Votes are not resources and cannot be used 
to pay this cost. 
REWARDS
Rewards may be gained from different places, including worker action spaces, stratagem cards, or achievement 
cards. Regardless of where you gain a reward, it always functions the same way. If a reward gives you a number 
of victory points, resources, or votes, simply gain what is shown. For other rewards, see below.
:
This reward is some number of 
“wild” resources. Choose any 
combination of military, gold, and 
culture when you gain this reward.
You cannot gain votes in this way.
When you gain this reward, you 
may conquer 1 province (see 
Conquer Province, page 13).
Pick up all of your discarded 
stratagem cards and return them to 
your hand.
Gain all the resources and votes 
shown on the given production 
icon on your player mat and on 
any province cards tucked below 
that icon. For example, if this 
player gained the red production 
icon reward, they would receive 
6 military, 2 culture, and 1 power 
victory point. The maximum of 2 
province cards is only checked at 
the end of the council phase—the 
maximum has no impact on what 
you can gain until then.
Remove 1 of your workers from a 
row with a timer on it (either from 
the top gold-framed or the bottom 
rewards box). It is immediately 
available for use again.
Designer’s Note: Note the variance in the 
timers’ run-times. The green and purple 
areas offer greater rewards, but take 2 
or 3 minutes instead of 45 seconds. It is 
recommended that you do not place all of 
your workers on the same row of the purple 
action area, as this will lock up all of your 
options for a long period of time! Of course, 
if you’re certain it’s the best play, there’s 
nothing illegal about doing it.
?
PendRulebook_r18.indd 22
PendRulebook_r18.indd 22

Convert exactly 1 victory point of your choice (excluding 
legendary achievement) into 1 other victory point of your 
choice (excluding legendary achievement).
 
Play this card when taking a worker action in the green 
or purple areas. Do not pay the cost of 2
for taking 
the action. This card cannot be used to avoid the cost of 
 for the Conquer Province action on the black area.
Pay any combination of 10 resources to gain your 
legendary achievement victory point. You cannot select 
this card if you already have your legendary achievement 
victory point.
PROVINCE CARDS
Some province cards are colored differently. This 
indicates that each production icon gives the 
same kind of reward (i.e., red cards: all military, 
blue cards: all culture, yellow cards: all gold, 
purple cards: all votes). 
STRATAGEM CARDS & COUNCIL REWARD CARDS
See the Advanced Characters Reference Cards for rules on those 
characters’ stratagem cards.
Immediately convert 1 of your common workers into a 
grande worker (retrieve your grande worker from the pile 
next to the council board). Place the grande worker in the 
same location that the converted common worker was 
in. Remove the converted common worker piece from 
the game (you cannot bring it back into play; your total 
combination of common workers and grande workers 
may never exceed 4). You may not choose this card if you already have 2 
grande workers.
These stratagems are unique for each character. They allow you to gain 
an additional common worker by paying the cost shown. You cannot 
use these cards to gain a grande worker. The worker gained immediately 
comes into play and may be placed per normal rules. You may never have 
more than 4 total workers (including grande workers).
Although this is a 
 card, do not remove it from the 
game. Instead, place it to the side of your player mat. 
During the council phase (including the phase when you 
select this council reward), you may have a maximum of 
3 province cards in each slot of your player mat, rather 
than 2. If you have one of these cards, you may not claim 
the same reward in a future council phase, and doing so 
will not increase your maximum province count again.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 23
PendRulebook_r18.indd 23

FAQ
Can a grande worker be placed 
on the black action area? 
Yes. There is no restriction on 
where a grande worker can be 
placed (except in the advanced 
variant).
Can I move a worker from the 
bottom box of an action space 
back to the top gold frame of 
that same action space? 
Not while the timer is on that 
row. Once the timer is flipped off 
the row, that worker is free to be 
moved to any legal place, including 
the top gold frame of that same 
action space.
Is it legal to move a worker from 
1 row of an area to the other row 
in the same area by moving very 
quickly while the timer is “in the 
air” being flipped? 
No, timers are considered to be 
flipped instantly to the other row.
Can I place a common worker 
onto an action space on the 
green or purple action areas 
containing only a grande worker? 
No. Grande workers can break the 
placement rules and can always 
be placed into an action space, but 
common workers cannot be placed 
in an action space if there are any 
workers there (except in the black 
area).
If I decide I no longer want to 
take an action, can I just take 
my worker off an action space? 
If the timer is not on the row, yes—
your worker is free to be moved. If 
the timer is on the row, no—you 
cannot move a worker off an action 
space if the timer is on the row. You 
must wait until the timer is flipped 
off the row, even if you don’t take 
the action.
When I conquer a province, can 
I draw straight off the top of 
the deck without dealing a new 
province card first? 
Yes.
What if, after calling council, 
players refuse to declare they 
are done with their actions 
and move to the council phase 
because multiple players are 
waiting on other players to say 
they are done first? 
It is rare, but possible, for players 
to get stuck in a strategic loop 
where they wish to keep adjusting 
their workers in response to one 
another. If this happens, claim 
privilege to break the stalemate 
(i.e., whoever is ranked higher gets 
to place last).
Is council called after the purple 
timer finishes running out of 
sand? 
No, you do not wait for the sand to 
run out of the purple timer to call 
council. As soon as the last purple 
timer marker cube is knocked off 
you must immediately call council.
Should we reset the boards for 
the council phase (i.e., pull off 
the timers and workers and 
restart like at the beginning 
of the game after the council 
phase)? 
No. Do not “reset” any workers or 
timers during the council phase. 
The council phase effectively 
pauses the game—leave all timers 
and workers where they are. 
However, you may continue to 
move workers and take actions 
after calling council (except for 
flipping timers). It is only once 
all players agree to move to the 
council phase itself that no more 
actions can be taken.
How do we start the next round 
of play after we’ve completed 
the council phase? 
There are no special steps you 
need to take to resume play. Once 
you have completed all the steps 
of the council phase, and once all 
players are ready, simply flip all 
three timers and resume play. As is 
always the case whenever you flip a 
timer, flip it from its current row to 
the other row in its area.
Can I play multiple stratagem 
cards that modify a worker 
action on the same action? 
Yes. For example, if you were Bolk 
the Warmonger, you could play his 
stratagem card to take an adjacent 
action and also play a stratagem 
to avoid paying the gold cost of an 
action. However, this would only 
avoid the gold cost of one of the 
actions; you would still have to pay 
the cost of the other action.
Can I place two of my workers 
into the top gold frame of the 
same action space? Yes. As long 
as you follow the placement rules, 
it is legal to place more than 
one of your own workers in the 
same action space (except in the 
advanced variant).
©2020 Stonemaier LLC. Pendulum is a trademark of Stonemaier LLC. All Rights Reserved.
PendRulebook_r18.indd 24
PendRulebook_r18.indd 24