FOR 2-4 PLAYERS
AGES 8-Adult
CONTENTS
Roll-up Pente Gameboard
4 Sets of Colored Glass Stones (35 of each color)
4 Cloth Drawstring Stone Storage Bags
Illustrated Instructions
OBJECT
There are two ways to win Pente. Win by getting five (or more) stones 
in a row, either horizontally, vertically, or diagonally, with no empty 
points in between. Or, win by capturing five (or more) pairs of your 
opponents’ stones.
SET-UP AND A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF GAMEPLAY
1.	Choose from the basic or advanced variations of Pente. If this is 
	 your first time playing Pente, start with the Basic Rules for Two Players.
2.	Each player selects a set of colored stones. 
3.	Start with the board completely clear of stones. 
4.	The first player (chosen by chance) begins the game by playing one 
	 stone on the center point. Players take turns playing their stones, one 
	 at a time, on any empty intersection. 
	 HOW STONES ARE PLAYED
	 The stones are played on the intersections of the lines (including the 
	 edge of the board), rather than in the squares. A move is completed 
	 when the stone is released. Once played, a stone cannot be moved 
	 again, except when removed by a capture. 
5.	Players take turns adding new stones to the board, building up their 
	 positions, until one player wins.
BASIC RULES FOR TWO PLAYERS
CAPTURES
Whenever your opponent has two stones (and only two), which are 
adjacent, those stones are vulnerable to capture. The pair can be 
captured by bracketing its two ends with your own stones. Example: 
Green plays on this point indicated by the arrow, bracketing Blue’s pair 
of stones. The pair is thus captured and removed from the board, 
leaving the final position as shown.
Captures can be made along diagonal as well as horizontal and vertical 
lines. All four stones involved must be consecutive and in a straight line. 
As soon as the capturing play is made, the captured stones are removed 
from the grid and placed in view along the border so that both players 
can see how may stones have been taken.
Moving Into A Captured Position: A stone may legally be played onto 
any empty intersection, even if that point has been previously occupied, 
and even if it forms a pair between two enemy stones. Thus, Blue’s 
move in the diagram above is safe and no stones are removed from the 
board.
Multiple Captures: It is legal to capture two or more pairs with a single 
move. Example: Green’s move brackets and captures two separate pairs 
of Blue’s stones.
FIVE-IN-A-ROW
The five-in-a-row must be consecutive 
and in a straight line to win, as shown 
left. It may run in any direction—
horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. It 
need not be exactly five—six or more 
stones in a row wins as well.
Playing Hint: If you obtain the 
advantage of having an unblocked 
four-in-a-row, called “tessera,” you have 
practically won the game. Whichever 
end your opponent blocks you can 
play on the other end and achieve the 
winning five-in-a-row.
Therefore, if your opponent has 
an open three, as shown at left, one 
end of the three would be blocked 
immediately to prevent the formation 
of the deadly tessera.
This axiom, that you must block an open 
three, applies unless you have a better 
move (see left)—like a move to make 
four, or a good capture on this move or 
the next that will remove stones form 
the row or pose a superior threat. Even 
if the three stones are not adjacent, they 
must still be blocked to stop the win. 
The three white circles in the diagram to 
the left are all possible blocking moves.
ETIQUETTE
It is a customary, but not mandatory, refinement of this game to announce 
“three” or “tria” when moving to make an open three; also to call “four” 
or “tessera” when making four-in-a-row. This is so that your opponent 
will not forget to stop the formation of an open four or five. The idea is 
not to win because of your opponent’s blunder or oversight, but to win 
in spite of his or her seeing every threat. Pointing out your opponent’s 
errant move also demonstrates your own confidence and mastery of play.
ADVANCED VARIATIONS FOR TWO PLAYERS
The game of Pente is readily adaptable to a wide range of tastes. After 
you’ve become comfortable with basic Pente, try one of the intriguing 
game modifications listed here.
TOURNAMENT RULE
As players increase their skill, the advantage of moving first in basic 
Pente becomes more and more significant. Therefore, the following 
modification has been introduced for use in tournaments or other 
serious games: The first player’s second move must be at least three 
spaces from the center point. This neutralizes the advantage of the first 
player by imposing a slight positional constraint upon him or her. A 
square can be drawn between the four inner “stars” on the board. The 
first player’s second move must be on or outside the perimeter of this 
square. No other restrictions are imposed on either player.
POINTS PENTE FOR TWO PLAYERS
For Two Players
This variation introduces a certain element of risk into the game and 
provides a new way of keeping score, which more accurately determines 
the relative strengths of the players. The rules and strategy of Points 
Pente are the same for basic Pente. 
Although each game is still won by getting five-in-a-row or five captures, 
an additional objective is to win by as many points as possible. The first 
player to score a designated number of points (usually 21 to 50), over a 
series of games, wins the match.

Scoring Points: When the game is over, points are counted and scored 
as follows.
•	 The player, if any, who got five-in-a-row receives 5 points as a bonus.
•	 Each player receives 1 point for each capture he or she made.
•	 Each player receives 1 point for each four-in-a-row he or she has still 
	 remaining on the board. Four-in-a-row is 4 stones, consecutively 
	 and in a straight line. Any that were wiped out during the game do not count.
Playing with points introduces new strategies into the game by 
challenging both players to take calculated risks in order to gain as 
many points as possible. For instance, if one player accumulates an 
overwhelming advantage, such as an unblocked four, he or she may 
prefer to delay making the winning move for a while in an attempt to 
gain even more points.
Handicaps: Playing Points allows for an easy handicapping. For 
example, in a match to 21, a veteran player may give an intermediate 
player an edge of 5 or 10 points—thus evening the contest.
RULES FOR THREE OR MORE PLAYERS
MIXED CAPTURES
Since many multi-player variations use stones of more than two colors, 
a new type of capture is possible: to capture a pair of stones of two 
different colors. The bracketing stones must be of one color. In the 
diagram below Green captures a Blue and an Amber stone.
BASIC RULES FOR FOUR PLAYERS
You can play Partners with two teams of two players. Players alternate 
turns, using the same rules as in Basic Two-Player Pente.
TEAM PENTE
For Four Players
Stones: One color per player (four colors in all).
Object of the Game
One Team wins when:
•	 One player gets five (or more) of his or her own stones in a row, just 
	 as in basic-two player Pente, or
•	 The team captures 10 (or more) stones from their opponents.
How to Play: The players split up into two teams, with team members 
sitting opposite each other. The first player moves onto the center 
point. Thereafter the players take turns, in a clockwise direction, placing 
their stones as in basic Pente. Each player controls different colored 
stones and cooperates with his or her partner for a team win. During the 
game it is not legal to discuss specific strategy with your partner.
Captures: Normal captures and mixed captures are allowed. It is legal 
to capture your partner’s stones. However, only those stones taken from 
your opponents count toward the winning total. You may not capture 
your own stones.
POINTS PENTE FOR THREE OR FOUR PLAYERS
For Three or Four Players
When not playing a team game, each extra player makes it more and 
more difficult for an individual player to get five-in-a-row, since there are 
more players to block each threat. Therefore, this variation requires only 
four-in-a-row to win, giving each player a better chance of success and 
keeping the games fast-paced.
Stones: One color per player (three or four colors in all)
Object of the Game
To win the match by being the first player to score a designated number 
of points (usually 21) over a series of games. A game ends when a player 
makes four-in-a-row or 4 captures. 
Captures: Normal captures and mixed captures are allowed.
How to Play: The first player moves onto the center point. Thereafter 
the players take turns, in a clockwise direction, placing their stones as in 
basic Pente.
Scoring: When the game is over, the points are counted and scored as follows:
•	 The player, if any, who gets four-in-a-row receives 10 points as a bonus.
•	 Each player receives 1 point for each capture he or she made.
•	 Each player receives 1 point for each three-in-a-row (tria) he or she 
	 still has remaining on the board.
The strategy in this variation is different from basic Pente in that players 
can put too many winning threats on the board at one time. Here, 
unlike basic Pente, playing too aggressively can backfire and throw the 
game open to end suddenly and with unexpected results.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
Does six-in-a-row also win?
Yes, six or more stones in a row wins the game as well as five.
Can a stone be played on the edge of the board?
Yes, you may play on the very edge of the grid; and also inside the four 
hemispheres, each of which covers three “invisible” intersections that 
can be used.
Can I break up a five-in-a-row by capturing one of its stones?
No, when a player gets five-in-a-row, he or she wins immediately. It 
does not matter if the opponent can “capture across” for the winning 
five-in-a-row, even if that would be his or her fifth capture.
What happens if I form a pair between two enemy stones: Are 
they captured?
No, you cannot “capture yourself” by moving into a captured position. 
Instead, the pair remains on the board.
After making a capturing move, do I have the option of leaving the 
captured stones on the board?
No. Captured stones must be removed. However, if all players 
overlook that a move is a capture only to realize it later in the game, the 
“captured” stones remain on the board.
What happens if the position gets disrupted?
Move carefully! The player who drops the pieces and disturbs the board 
automatically loses!
Who moves first?
The first player has a slight advantage. Therefore some method of 
chance should be used to decide who plays first in the first game. In 
following games, the loser of the last game moves first. The advantage 
of the first move can be eliminated by using the Tournament Rule (See 
Advanced Variations for Two Players).
CONTACT US
We hope that you enjoy playing Deluxe Pente. We are always happy to 
hear from our consumers. If you have any questions or would like to 
purchase additional sets of glass Pente stones, please contact us:
Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan Street Suite C-104
Danvers, MA 01923
Phone: 1-800-664-7788 ext. 114
Fax: 978-739-4847
Email: wmoves@winning-moves.com
	 	 
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and 
compliance please visit http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
Item # 1212
HASBRO, The HASBRO GAMING name and logo and PENTE are trademarks of 
Hasbro, Inc. and are used with permission. © 2017 Hasbro, Inc., Pawtucket, RI 02862. All 
Rights Reserved. Manufactured by Winning Moves Inc. WINNING MOVES, WINNING 
MOVES GAMES, and CLASSIC, RETRO, COOL, & FUN, and Logos thereof, are 
registered trademarks of Winning Moves Inc. © 2017 Winning Moves Inc., 75 Sylvan 
Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923. Colors and parts may vary. Made in CHINA