Several varieties of trees compete to grow and spread 
their seeds in the sunlight of this small, but fertile, 
forest. As each tree grows its leaves are touched 
by the sun’s rays, collecting Light Points and casting 
shadows on the surrounding smaller trees. When a 
tree reaches the end of its life cycle, players win points 
proportional to the richness of the soil the tree was 
rooted in.
Author:
Illustrator: 
Hjalmar Hach
Sabrina Miramon
Ӽ Illustrated Rules
Ӽ 1 Game Board
Ӽ 	1 Sun Segment
Ӽ 	4 Sun Revolution Counters
Ӽ 	4 Player Boards 
Ӽ 	1 First Player Token
Ӽ 	24 Scoring Tokens
Ӽ 	4 Light Point Trackers
Ӽ 	24 Seed Tokens (6 of each variety)
Ӽ 	32 Small Trees (8 of each variety)
Ӽ 	16 Medium Trees (4 of each variety)
Ӽ 	8 Large Trees (2 of each variety)
Using your light points, take your trees through their life 
cycles, from seedlings to fully grown. Then, collect Scoring 
Tokens with points proportional to the richness of the soil 
on which the trees grew. 
Introduction
Game Components
Object of the game
2 to 4 Players – 8 and up – 45-60 Minutes

A
C
E
F
G
 H
Set-up
Ê Set the main board in the center of the table.
Ê Give each player 1 Player Board, 1 Light Point 
Tracker, 6 Seeds, and 14 Trees: 8 small, 4 medium 
and 2 tall (matching the tree variety on their Player 
Board).
Ê Stack the Scoring Tokens in 4 piles (according to 
their shade of green and number of leaves) next 
to the board, in descending order so the highest 
scores are at the top of each pile.
Ê On each Player Board place 4 Seeds, 4 Small 
Trees, 3 Medium Trees, and 2 Large Trees on the 
corresponding open spaces. Then, set the Light 
Point Tracker on “0”.
Ê Place the remaining 2 Seeds, 4 Small Trees, and 1 
Medium Tree alongside each Player Board; these are 
the seeds and trees available to each player at the 
beginning of the game. 
Ê The youngest player starts the game, making sure 
to take the First Player Token.
Ê Taking turns, players place 1 of their available Small 
Trees on a space of the external edge of the main 
board (the 1 leaf zone). Taking turns again, they place 
a second Small Tree. This will allow players to collect 
Light points during the first Photosynthesis Phase.
Ê Finally, place the Sun Segment on the sun symbol 
printed on the board (making sure there is enough 
space around the board to move the sun freely to 
each of the 6 positions). To keep track of the sun’s 
revolutions, set the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Revolution 
Counters on the edge of the board in numerical 
order. Unless playing the advanced version, leave 
the 4th counter in the box.
In Photosynthesis, the goal is to maximize tree growth in the 
time it takes for the sun to circle the board three times. Each 
time the sun is in one position, a round is played. Each round 
has two phases:
1.	The Photosynthesis Phase (collecting light points)
2.	The Life Cycle Phase (taking actions using light 
points)
Playing a round
2 player game: Leave the 3 darkest green Scoring Tokens 
that have 4 leaves printed on them in the box, they will not be 
used. When players collect Scoring Tokens from the middle 4 
leaf space, they instead take the tokens from the 3 leaf stack. 
A
C
E
 H
G
1- The Photosynthesis Phase: 
The player with the First Player Token moves the Sun 
Segment clockwise, to the next angle on the hexagonal 
board (note: this step is skipped during the first round of 
the game). Light points are then counted based on the new 
position of the sun. Players get light points for each 
tree that is not in the shadow of another tree (see 
shadow sizes on the next page). Players add their light points 
to their Player Boards by moving the Light Point Tracker.
 
Example of a 4 player set up.
F

• Buying: Players can use their light points to 
purchase seeds or trees of any size from their Player 
Boards. The numbers next to them correspond to their 
value in light points. They must buy from the bottom 
of the board up, in any column (from the least to the 
most expensive). Once a player has bought the pieces 
needed, and subtracted the value in light points using the tracker, 
the pieces are moved to the available area next to the Player Board.
Note: The 2 Seeds, 2 Small Trees, and 1 Medium Tree left in the available area at the end of the set up are available 
to plant without buying, in future rounds. Any other seeds and trees a player wishes to use from their Player Board must 
be bought, and then placed in the available area.
• Planting a seed: 
Players can plant a Seed around one or more of their trees, using one light point per Seed. A Seed from the available area can 
be planted at a distance that is determined by the size of the tree from which it originates. You can plant a seed in any direction, 
including nonlinear directions, as long as the spaces connect. 
Ê One space from a Small Tree
Ê Up to 2 spaces from a Medium Tree
Ê Up to 3 spaces from a Tall Tree
Planting a seed activates the tree of origin’s space, as well as the space the seed is placed on. Therefore during 
their turn a player cannot plant more than one Seed originating from the same tree. Additionally, they cannot grow a tree 
from one size to the next, and then plant a Seed using that same tree as its origin.
Light points accumulate from round to round, but a player may not have more than 20 light points at any given time. Any 
additional points earned are not scored, and cannot be used. Light points are scored as follows:
Ê 	A Small Tree scores 1 point
Ê 	A Medium Tree scores 2 points
Ê 	A Large Tree scores 3 points
No points are scored for seedlings.
Shadow sizes: 
All trees cast a shadow onto trees that are the same 
size or smaller, on the side opposite the sun. A 
tree that is taller than a shadow-casting tree is 
not shadowed, and receives full light points. Trees 
in the shadow retain the ability to cast their own 
shadow, and trees may cast shadows on their 
own variety. The shadows are casted as follows, in 
straight lines corresponding to the arrows illustrated 
on the Sun:
Ê Small Trees cast a 1 space shadow
Ê Medium Trees cast a 2 space shadow
Ê Large Trees cast a 3 space shadow
In this example, the orange trees earn 4 light points, the blue trees earn 4 light points, the green trees earn 1 point, and 
the yellow tree earns 1 point.
2- The Life Cycle Phase: 
Ê Once all light points have been counted and scored, the round continues clockwise with whoever is in possession 
of the first player token. Players are then free to spend their light points on any number of actions, and can choose 
to exhaust their light points, or only use a portion of them (keeping those leftover for future rounds). Each player 
carries out all the actions they wish to do during their turn before it is the next player’s turn.
Ê Important: During their turn, a player cannot carry out more than one action on the same space on 
the main board. Once a player has acted upon a space on the main board, that space 
is considered activated and cannot be used again by this player on that turn.
Possible actions

Giovanni Intini, Riccardo Sandroni, Karim Khadiri, Angela Lovat, Isabella Fattori, Lorenzo 
"Lollo" Cudicio, Chiara Pezzi, Gabriele Zuttion, Ivano Da Ronco, Pigiu, Roberto Pestrin, 
Federico Formentini, Davide Bardelli, Marco Piasentier, Filippo Bertolini, Carlo Burelli, 
Emanuele Degano, Quarta Dimensione (Udine), IdeaG. I would also like to thank Simon 
Le Minor for his sustained efforts, and for believing in this game, Sabrina Miramon for her 
breathtaking artwork, and Giovanni Bernardis for undertaking countless test. I would finally 
like to give special thanks to Maurizio Vergendo who discovered this game and whose 
friendship was born from this experience. 
Credits:
After all players have taken a turn, the First Player Token is 
passed on to the next player, clockwise, and a new round 
starts with the Photosynthesis Phase. 
When the sun has completed one revolution around the 
board, the top token of the Sun Revolution Counter pile is 
drawn and placed in the box.
Once the basic rules have been mastered and players are 
comfortable with them, you can try a more intense variation 
by choosing to apply one, or both, of the following rules:
Ê Include the 4th Sun Revolution Counter, giving the sun 
another revolution around the board.
Ê 	Players cannot plant a seed or grow a tree when that 
seed or tree is shadowed by another tree.
• Collecting: Players can choose to collect 
Scoring Tokens by ending the life-cycle of their Large 
Trees. To do so costs 4 light points per Large Tree.
Ê The Large Tree is removed from the main board and placed 
on the topmost available space of the player’s Player 
Board. 
Ê The player then collects the Scoring Token that is 
on top of the pile that matches the soil type of 
where the Large Tree was rooted. 
Ê If there are no tokens left in that pile, the player 
takes the top token of the next pile (Example: a 
player takes from the 2 leaf pile if the 3 leaf pile is gone).
Ê Once a tree has been collected, other players are free to plant in that space during 
that round.
End of the game
Ending a round
Advanced Variation
The game ends when the sun has completed three revolutions 
around the board, and the last Sun Revolution Counter has 
been drawn. A full game is 18 rounds, with the last round 
occurring at the 6th position of the sun (the one before the 
sun symbol printed on the main board). Players then count the 
points on their Scoring Tokens. They also add 1 point for every 
3 unused light points (0-2 light points do not score any extra 
points). The player with the most points wins the game. In the 
event of a tie, the winner is the player with the most seeds and 
trees on the main board. If there is still a tie, both players win.
Game created by Hjalmar Hach. © 2017 Blue 
Orange. All rights reserved for all countries. 
Photosynthesis and Blue Orange are trademarks 
of Blue Orange. Made in China. Distributed 
under license by Blue Orange USA, San 
Francisco, California, USA. Designed in France. 
www.blueorangegames.com
• Growing a tree: 
A seed or tree can be replaced only by a tree that is the 
next size up.
Ê Growing from a Seed to a Small Tree costs 1 light point
Ê Growing from a Small Tree to a Medium Tree costs 2 light points
Ê 	Growing from a Medium Tree to a Large Tree costs 3 light points
Players can only take new trees from their available area to grow seeds or 
trees on the main board. Trees and seeds that are removed and 
replaced from the main board are then placed on the Player 
Board, on the topmost available space. If no corresponding 
spaces are open, the trees or seeds are discarded into the 
box for the remainder of the game.
Reminder: All of the above actions, except buying, 
activate a space on the main board (meaning you 
cannot act upon it again during your turn). This means 
that during your turn you cannot, for example, plant 
a seed and then grow it, grow a tree and then use it 
as a point of origin for a seed, use a tree as a point of 
origin for a seed and then grow it, or collect a tree 
and plant a seed in its space.