piatnik.com
Piatnik game no. 663390
© 1987, 2020 Piatnik • Printed in Austria
EB20/21-0xxxx
P0015417
Contents:
 5 sticks
55 cards
1 set of rules
Aim of the game:
Depending on the version of the game being played, the
winner is the player who succeeds at discarding either all
his cards or more cards than his opponents.
an exciting placement and card game
by Gerhard Kodys
for 2 to 4 players aged 8 upwards
Game setup:
Shuﬄe the cards, take one card from the pack and lay it
out on the table as a pattern for the sticks. The sticks are
then arranged according to the pattern. Each player is
dealt ﬁve cards face down. The remaining cards are placed
in a pile face down.
GB
Order of play:
The youngest player starts and the game
then continues in a clockwise direction.

When it is a player´s turn he moves one of the sticks to a
new position. He may place the stick anywhere as long as
it touches the pattern at one point.
After this the rules vary according to the version of the
game being played.
1.
Standard
If the same player can now make the pattern of the sticks
match the pattern on one of his cards, he may put that
card down on the table. Remember: patterns also count as
matching if they correspond when turned upside down or
side to side (mirror image), as illustrated:
If the player cannot put a card down, he must take a new
one from the pack. If another player makes a pattern with
the sticks which matches a pattern in your cards, you can
put down a card, but the other player does not need to
take a card. The ﬁrst player to put down all his cards is the
winner. The other players score minus points according to
the number of cards left in their hand. After an agreed

2. Plus
If a player manages to make a pattern with the sticks
which matches a pattern on his cards, he may put that
card down. (Here again, patterns are also counted as
matching if they correspond when they are turned upside
down or side to side). He then has an extra turn. It can
happen that a player keeps on making new matching
patterns and puts down one card after another, up to all
ﬁve. When he has ﬁnished his turn the player picks up new
cards from the pack to replenish his hand up to ﬁve again.
Each player collects the cards he has put down in a pile in
front of him and at the end of the game scores a point for
each card in his pile. The player with the most points is the
winner of that game. After an agreed number of games
the points are added up, and the player with the highest
points total is declared the overall winner.
number of games the player with the fewest minus points
is declared the overall winner.
3. Solitary
This solitary version of the game is played with the ﬁve
cards openly displayed on the table. As with „Digit-Plus“ if
you make a matching pattern you get an extra move, but a
new card is taken from the pack straight away to replace a
card put down on the table so that you have 5 cards. If you
cannot make a matching pattern straight away with any of
your 5 cards you score a minus point for every extra move it
takes you to do so. The game ends when the pack is used

4. Open
The games „Standard“ and „Plus“ can also be played with
open cards. This creates scope for a certain amount of
tactical planning during the game.
If you have any questions or
comments
about
„Digit“”,
please contact:
Piatnik
Hütteldorfer Straße 229-231
1140 Wien, Austria oder
info@piatnik.com 
Find us on
facebook.com/PiatnikSpiele
Warning! Not suitable for
children under 36 months.
Contains small parts. Danger
of suffocation. Please keep
address for further reference.
up, then you add up your total of minus points. The fewer
you have, the better you have played. The ratings are:
0 to 5 points..........................................outstanding!
6 to 10 points........................................very good
11 to 15 points........................................good
16 to 20 points.....................................just alright
Over 20 points....................................room for improvement!