Goal of the game:
The winner will be the player with the most worms in his claws at the end of the
game.
An appetizingly laid-back dice game for 2 to 7 gambling squeakers
Roasted worms are a bird’s delight. On one hand this is due to the fact that worms are the
favourite dish of all poultry. On the other hand, the preference for barbecue worms is
nobody else’s doing but that of Johnny Rooster Roaster. His Uncle Sam, a native from
Chickentown, Kentucky, had the idea to open up a worm roasting house at each corner of
town. Johnny didn’t hesitate to make this idea a reality and since their first days as worm
barbecue masters, their roasting joints have found no lack of eager and famished custo-
mers. And the customers keep coming. All over the place, chicken folk have started to gather
worms and supply them to Johnny. Whether Curry Worm, Roast’n Worm or Frankfurter Worm:
poultry of all sorts are standing in line to taste one of these specialties. For Johnny and his
new-found business, the following stands: 
from worm hunter to millionaire!
• 16 barbecue worm helpings with values 
from 21 to 36
• 8 dice with six symbols (numbered 1 - 5 and with one worm)
• This game rule
Contents: Fig. 1:

Preparation:
Place the 16 barbecue worm helpings next to each other on the center of the
table, so that they are in ascending order. This row forms the barbecue grill. The
youngest player gets the dice and begins the game. 
Fig. 2:
The number on the barbecue worm helping
shows what score (sum of collected dice) the
player needs to get at the end of his turn in
order to take the worm. 
In each worm helping there are one to several
worms printed.
Playing the game:
The starting player begins the game and play continues in clockwise order.
The player whose turn it is tries to get a barbecue worm from the grill or to
snatch one from another player.
To do so, he rolls all 8 dice at once. Now he chooses one of the numbers from the
dice roll and takes all the dice with that number (or all the worms) and places
them in front of himself. However, he is only allowed to pick a symbol he has not
yet collected before. The symbols of all the dice he collected previously are
added together so that all the players know his current sum.

Getting a barbecue worm helping:
As soon as a player collects all 8 dice or all 6 symbols on the dice his turn is over.
He can also end his turn earlier if he chooses to. However, this only makes sense if
he can take a worm helping from the grill or another player.
Each collected worm is worth 5 points.
From his first dice roll, Jonathan chooses
both worms and places them in front of
himself.
He can then roll the six remaining dice. This
time, he picks the two 4’s and places them
next to the two collected worms from the
first dice roll. He now has a score of 18 (2
x worm + 2 x 4 = 18). He cannot collect the
three worms he just rolled now as he has
already two worms from his previous dice
roll. 
Jonathan can roll the four remaining dice
again. This time, he gets two 4’s, a 5 and a
worm. He has no choice but to take the 5
from this roll, since he has already collec-
ted the other symbols. His current score is
now at 23. If he chooses to keep rolling
the dice, he now needs to get at least a 1,
2, or a 3, as he already possesses 4’s, 5’s,
and worms.
Fig. 3: 
the 1st roll
the 2nd roll
the 3rd roll
2nd roll: 
1st roll: 
3rd roll: 

If, the collected dice include at least one worm symbol and add up to the number
of a visible barbecue worm helping, the player can take it.
If the portion is on the grill, he takes it from there (see figure 4a).
Otherwise, if the barbecue worm is lying visibly in front of another player, he can
snatch it from him (see figure 4b). You can only snatch a worm helping from
another player if you have the exact count. 
If the sum of his collected dice equals the worm helping that is lying open in his
own stack or if it is not lying on the grill, the player takes another helping from
the grill that has a lower value, if available (see figure 4c + d).
This also applies in case he overlooks that another player has this helping of
barbecue worm visibly in front of himself (see figure 4e)
Jonathan has to take the three
2`s from his third dice roll, as he
has already collected the 4`s.
He ends his turn with the result
of 24 and, with this, takes the
barbecue worm helping number
24 from the grill. 
Steven ends his turn and takes
the helping 21 that lies visibly in
front of Heather.
Fig. 4a:
Fig. 4b:
Jonathan
Steven

Nicole has a score of 23 and
ends her turn. She takes the
next lowest helping from the
grill (21), since the 23 is alrea-
dy visible in front of her and
the 22 has been taken
and placed safe by another
player.
Tom ends his turn with a
score of 31 and takes the
helping with the 28 from the
grill. This is because the hel-
pings numbered 31, 30 and 29
are not visible at the
moment.
Heather has a score of 26,
when she ends her turn. She
overlooks the helping 26 that
is visible in front of Jonathan.
Therefore, she takes the 25
from the grill.
Fig. 4c:
Nicole
Jonathan
Fig. 4d:
Fig. 4e:

Taking a barbecue worm helping and building a stack:
When a player takes a barbecue worm helping, he places it face-up in front of
himself. Each new helping collected is placed face-up on top of the last one col-
lected, thus building a stack. This means that there is always just one visible help-
ing lying in front of a player. This visible helping is the
only one that can be "snatched" by the other players.
The covered worm helpings are "safe" (see figure 5)
Unsuccessful turns:
A turn is over unsuccessfully, when a player gets a dice roll that has only numbers
and worms which he has already collected (see figure 6a). The player stops rol-
ling the dice for this turn.
The attempt has also failed if at the end of the player's turn, he wasn't able to
collect any worm(s) (see figure 6b). The same applies if the player is unable to
reach the score of an visible worm helping (see figure 6c).
After a failed attempt, not only does the player get no worm helping, he also must
return one he has previously collected that is one of the top of his stack of
worm helpings (if he has one) and place it back on the grill (see chapter
"Returning a barbecue worm helping”). The next player gets his turn.
Nicole can take the helping with the
28. She places it face-up on her
stack. All helpings beneath are "safe"
for the moment.
Fig. 5: 

Returning a barbecue worm helping:
When a player needs to return a worm helping, he places it face-up back on the
grill. Then, he turns over (face down) the highest available worm helping on the
grill. This helping cannot be acquired for the remainder of the game and is left
face-down (see figure 7a).
If the returned helping is the highest number on the grill, it remains face-up (see
figure 7b).
On her 4th dice roll, Nicole gets only
symbols that she has already collec-
ted.
Heather gets two 5’s on her third roll.
Though she has a score of 31 and the
helping 31 is visible, she cannot take
any worm helping because she has
failed to collect any dice
with the worm symbol.
With his last dice roll. Tom gets two
1’s and reaches a score of 25. The
worm helping with the 25 is already
his and there are no helpings left on
the grill with a lower value.
Bad luck for Tom.
Fig. 6a:
Nicole
Fig. 6b:
Fig. 6c:

Tom has to return his visible
worm helping to the grill. Since at
the moment the 34 is the highest
helping on the grill, he turns it
face down.
Heather has to return
the helping with the 30
to the grill. Since this
helping is now the
highest on the grill, it will remain
face-up. In this case no worm
helping is turned over.
Game End and Final Score:
The game ends as soon as there are no more open worm helpings on the grill.
Now, each player adds up the worms that are on their barbecue worm helpings.
The player with the most worms has won the game. If there is a tie, the player
that has the most valuable single worm helping (the one with
the highest number) has won the game.
If you want to shorten the game, you can
use the following alternative: the returned
helping is also placed face-down, even if it is
the highest number on the grill.
Fig. 7a:
Fig. 7b:
Alternative
RIO
GRANDE
GAMES
© 2005
Publisher: Zoch Verlag 
Author: Reiner Knizia
Illustration: Doris Matthäus
Translation: Philip Vargas