Wild Card
CONTENTS
78 Pictureka Cards (including 3 Penguin “Wild” Cards)
32 Mission Cards
Illustrated Instructions
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Each of the 4 fabulous card games has a different objective and 
a different pace. Choose a game to suit your mood:
Fabulous, frantic, fast and furious:
•	8-Away – As soon as you spot a mission picture on one of your 
cards, you can get rid of it! First to dump all their cards wins.
•	Alphabetti – A frantic find-it-first frenzy. Race to find pictures 
starting with a series of letters (e.g. A-K).
Gentle but juicy, creative but calm:
•	Matchureka – Find 2 pictures that match the mission in this 
mellow memory game. It’s focused fun for calm minds.
•	Cow’s Creative Combo – Combine cards to complete your 
missions. Great for giving your creative thinking muscles 
a workout.
HOW TO PLAY
Rules for All Games:
•	Shout Pictureka! when you find an image.
•	If you shout Pictureka! before you have found an 
image, you’re a sneaky cheat! The other players 
can pick a punishment for you.
•	Penguin Wild Card. If you see a card that looks 
like this, you’re in luck! You can use it to 
represent ANY picture card in the deck.
Game 1: 8-AWAY
For 2-5 players
A rousing race of a game that gets 
everyone flustered!
Get rid of all 8 of your cards by spotting mission 
pictures on them. First to run out of cards wins.
•	Shuffle the mission cards and place them in a facedown draw 
pile in the middle. 
•	Shuffle the picture cards and deal 8, facedown, to each player.
•	Each player lays out their own picture cards in 4 piles of 
2 cards as shown below.
•	Everybody ready? It doesn’t matter who starts.
1.	 Turn over a mission card, read both missions out loud and 
place it face-up next to 	the draw pile.
2.	Everyone (including you) searches their top 4 picture cards 
for an image that matches either one of the missions. 
	
You cannot look for pictures on the bottom card until 
	
you have gotten rid of the top card.
3.	As soon as anyone finds a matching picture, they slap that 
picture card down on top of the mission card and yell out 
Pictureka! Describe what it is that matches the mission.
4.	If the other players agree, you’ve successfully matched that 
picture card. If not, take it back and keep looking for those 
missions until somebody gets rid of a card.
5.	The player who dumped a card now reads out the next 
mission card and play continues.
 
You can drop a penguin wild card on any mission card.
The first player to get rid of all 8 of their cards wins the game. 
Tip: You’ll have to separate the cards after each game. Make 
one pile of mission cards and another of picture cards, then 
shuffle both piles separately.
Game 2: ALPHABETTI
A high-energy game to get the 
party started.
Race to find pictures starting with a series 
of letters (e.g. A-K). 
•	You don’t need the mission cards, so put them to one side.
•	Shuffle the picture cards and give them to the oldest player 
to start the game.
•	On your first game, start at A and choose another letter in 
the alphabet to end the game on (e.g. K).
1.	 On your turn, hold the picture card deck facedown in your 
hand, call out the target letter (A) and start turning cards 
face-up. Lay down one card from the deck every second. 
Make a line of 4 cards, then go back and lay the next 4 cards 
on top of the first 4, and so on.
2.	All players (including you) search the pictures on the cards 
for something beginning with A.
3.	As soon as anyone spots something, they shout Pictureka! 
and say what you see (e.g. APPLE!). If everyone agrees, that 
player keeps the card. If there’s a disagreement, ignore the 
claim and keep playing.
4.	As soon as a picture is successfully spotted, it’s the next player’s 
turn. Pass the card deck to the player on your left. They call out 
the next letter (B) and start laying cards where you left off.
 If the penguin pops up, he counts as any letter!
As soon as someone finds a picture starting with the agreed 
letter to end the game (K), stop playing and count up your cards. 
The player with the most cards wins.
Tips: You can start and finish with any letter you like – M through 
Z, Y through G – or play the whole alphabet for a longer game.
If a letter is proving too tricky, all agree to skip to the next 
letter. Keep the same card-turner until someone spots a 
picture starting with the new letter.
®
Instructions3.indd 1
11/4/16 8:46 am

Something 
stinky
A tool
+
+
=
Pictureka!
A thing with 
more than 4 legs
A noisy thing
Game 3: MATCHUREKA! 
A slower, calmer game that trains your 
brain. Perfect just before bed.
Find 4 pairs of pictures that match the 
mission to win.
•	Shuffle the picture cards and deal 20 cards facedown in 
a 5 x 4 grid. Put the rest in a pile nearby.
•	Shuffle the mission cards and place them in a facedown 
draw pile.
•	The player whose birthday is closest to the date goes first.
1.	 On your first turn, flip over the top mission card, read both 
missions out loud, then place the card face-up where 
everyone can see it.
2.	Now flip any 2 picture cards face-up. 
3.	 Look at the 2 possible missions on the card. Can you match 
both picture cards to either mission?
For Example: To win the card, you must 
find 2 tools or 2 stinky things on separate 
picture cards. One of each doesn’t count! 
See above – 2 stinky things.
4. If you can’t find a match, better luck next time. 
Make a mental note of what you saw and where it was, then 
turn both picture cards facedown again. The next player now 
turns 2 picture cards face-up.
5. As soon as the player whose turn it is finds a match, they 
shout Pictureka!, say which mission they’re matching and 
what it is that works. If the other players disagree, ignore the 
Pictureka! and keep playing. If everyone agrees, they keep 	
the mission card, and then discard the matching picture cards 
from the grid. Take the top 2 cards from the picture card draw 
pile and place them facedown in the empty spaces so you still 
have 20 cards laid out.
6.	Now turn the next mission card over and read it out loud. 
As you won the last card, you get to have another turn.
Tip: Keep your eyes peeled even when it’s not your turn. 
 The mysterious penguin counts as any picture card.
The first player to collect 4 mission cards wins the game.
Tip: If nobody can match the missions after a few turns, 
agree to turn over a new mission.
Game 4: COW’S CREATIVE COMBO
Recommended for children of 8 or older.
Give your creative brain a workout in this cunning game.
 Be first to collect 4 
 mission cards by completing 
the missions on your own cards.
•	Shuffle and deal 3 picture cards 
and 1 mission card, facedown, to 
each player.
•	Place the spare picture and mission 
cards facedown in separate draw 
piles in the middle.
•Hold your own cards in your hand, but keep them secret from 
other players.
•	Your job is to match 3 picture cards to either one of the 
missions on your mission card – you get to choose which one.
•	The player with the oldest bones starts.
How To Play
1.	 On the first turn only, the first player takes 2 cards from 
the picture card draw pile, so they have 5 picture cards and 
1 mission card in their hand.
2.	 On your turn, look at the cards in your hand. Do any 3 picture 
cards match either of your missions? 
3.	 If not, swap 1 picture card by placing it face-up on a discard 
pile and taking a new one from the picture card draw pile.
4.	 Check again. Do any 3 of your picture cards match 1 of 
your missions?
5.	 If they DON’T: Choose 2 picture cards you don’t want and 
pass them, facedown, to the player on your left. Your turn 
is now over.
6.	 If they DO: Pictureka! Lay down the mission card and 
3 matching picture cards, and explain yourself! 
	
• If the group disagrees, tough luck. Take your cards back 
and pass 2 picture cards to the next player. 
	
• If everyone agrees, keep the mission card next to you. 
Put the used picture cards on the discard pile and take 
3 more. Take a new mission card, too.
	
You can only complete 1 mission per turn, so your turn 
is now over. Pass your 2 unwanted picture cards to the 
player on your left.
 As always, the magical penguin matches any mission.
The first player to collect 4 mission cards wins the game.
OTHER WAYS TO PLAY
Shorter or Longer Game
Depending on the game, change the game length by agreeing to 
collect or play a different number of cards to win the game, or 
play as many letters as you like in Alphabetti.
Team Play
Feel free to team up to help younger players.
™
We are happy to answer your questions or 
receive your comments about the Pictureka 
Card Game.
Contact us:
Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan Street Suite C-104
Danvers, MA 01923
Phone: 1-800-664-7788 ext. 114
Fax: 978-739-4847
Email: wmoves@winning-moves.com
For more information about Winning 
Moves product safety and compliance 
please visit http://www.winning-
moves.com/product_safety
Made & 
Marketed by:
Under License
From:
Instructions3.indd 2
11/4/16 8:46 am