Jeffrey D. Allers
2 – 5 players
8 years and up
20 minutes for 1 round
57 Cake Slices 
 3 x Plum (1 dollop of whipped cream)
 4 x Apricot (1 dollop)
 5 x Cherry (1 dollop)
 7 x Blackberry (2 dollops)
 8 x Kiwi (2 dollops)
 9 x Gooseberry (2 dollops)
10 x Strawberry (2 dollops)
11 x Chocolate (3 dollops)
Everyone knows the cake rules: one person cuts, 
the other chooses. In this way, one makes the 
slices as equal as possible so that one does not 
end up with the short end. But this rule does 
not apply to “piece o´ Cake”. Here a person can 
cleverly offer larger pieces to the others and still 
get the most in the end. 5 cakes with 11 slices of 
different varieties are divided. 
Each variety awards a different amount of points. 
One can immediately eat slices to guarantee a 
number of points, or collect them in the hope of 
scoring bonus points for having the most of that 
variety at the end of the game. Only skilled 
dividers with an eye on their opponents’ pieces 
can score the most points and win the game.
Game Idea
Game Components

The 57 cake slices are mixed and placed to the side in 5 face-down stacks of 11 slices each. The two 
remaining slices are placed face-down to the side as well. Every stack represents one of 5 cakes that will be 
distributed during the game.
A starting player is chosen and becomes the first “server.” He serves and divides the first cake.
Serving and Dividing the Cake	
The server takes a stack of 11 slices and places them face-up, forming a round cake, while keeping the 
slices in the same order as they were in the stack. In other words, the slices are drawn from the top of the 
stack and placed next to each other without changing the order. Then the server divides the cake into, at 
most, as many pieces as the number of players. It is also not allowed during this time to change the order 
of the slices, but each piece may be made up of any number of slices, even a single slice. There may also 
be less pieces than the number of players, in which case one or more players will not receive anything this 
round - including the server himself. With 2 players, the cake can also be divided into 4 pieces, with each 
piece chosen in alternating turns.
Example:
Mathilde, Otilie, Marie and Liliane meet at the bakery to play the game. 
Mathilde serves the first cake 	
 and divides it into four pieces
Preparation
Playing the Game

 
Dividing the Cake
Now the other players take their turns in order: beginning with the player to the left of the server, each 
player may
 · choose one of the pieces and decide whether to eat or collect the slices in that piece 
 · or forfeit choosing a piece and instead eat slices that he collected in an earlier round.
Whoever chooses a piece must immediately decide for each individual slice whether he wishes to eat or 
collect it.	 	
	
	
Eating a slice
The player flips over the slice that he wishes to eat and places it face-down in front of him. A slice that has 
been eaten awards as many points as the number of dollops of whipped cream pictured on that slice.
Collecting a slice
The player places the slice that he wants to collect face-up in front of him. If he has collected several 
slices of the same variety of cake, he places them next to each other. They remain face-up in front of the 
player. Collected slices may be eaten later in the game if a player chooses to forfeit choosing a piece of 
the current cake. Collected slices award points at the end of the game only to the player or players with 
the most slices of each variety. If a player does not have the majority of slices in a variety he has collected, 
these slices are worthless.
Example: 
Ottilie sits next to Mathilde and may choose the first piece.
She chooses the piece made 
up of 3 slices, below right 
She flips over the strawberry cake 
to show that she is immediately 
eating the slice. She eats the 
chocolate slice right away 
as well. She collects the
last slice in the hopes 
of scoring 9 points for 
having the most goose-
berry slices at the end 
of the game.

Forfeiting
Whoever forfeits taking a piece of the current cake may instead eat slices of one variety he has collected. 
He chooses one variety of slices he has collected, flips the slices over and places them face-down in front 
of him, together with the other slices he has eaten.
The player who served the cake is the last to choose a piece or forfeit. Any slices that remain from the 
cake are removed from the game.
Then the next player to the left becomes the server and places the slices of the next cake and divides it. 
This continues until all 5 cakes have been served.
When all 5 cakes have been served, the game is over and the players score points as follows:
Collected slices of cake
Each variety of cake that is face-up in front of the players is compared. The player who has collected the 
most slices of a variety receives as many points as the number on one of the slices of that variety (3-11 
points). This number also represents the number of slices of this variety in the game. The number of points 
rewarded for the majority in a variety is the same, no matter how many slices that player has collected. 
If there is a tie for the most slices in a variety, every player tied for the majority receives the full number 
of points for that variety.
Eaten slices of cake
Every face-down slice in front of the players is flipped face-up. Each individual slice awards as many 
points as the number of dollops of whipped cream pictured on the slice (1-3 points).
For a longer game, players may choose to play multiple rounds, keeping track of the scores from each 
round on a piece of paper.
Whoever has the most total points at the end of the game wins the cake battle. 
Afterwards, the winner must take a long walk in order to work off all the calories.
End of Game and Scoring
© 2008 Winning Moves. All rights reserved.
www.winningmoves.de