Barkeeper
Hotel
Banker
Gold digger
Sergeant
Farmer
Merchant
These grant an immediate special action: 
These grant a permanent special action:
Box contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 1 Game board – Double-sided: 
One side for 4 players, … 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 … one side for 2 or 3 players.
• 24 Coaches 
 
 
 
• 4 Starting coaches 
(which are longer 
 than the other 
24 coaches) 
• 1 First player marker 
 
 
 
• 49 Pioneer tiles – 7 of each type 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 8 Covering tiles 
 
• 10 Gold nuggets 
6 × 3 victory points, 
3 × 4 victory points, 
1 × 5 victory points
• 45 Dollar coins 
27 × 1 Dollar, 
18 × 2 Dollars
In player colors (blue, green, red and yellow):
• 4 Player boards (1 each) 
 
 
 
• 80 Pioneers (20 each) 
 
 
• 60 Roads (15 each) 
• 4 Scoring markers (1 each) 
• 4 Shop tiles (1 each) 
 
 
• 1 Stagecoach 
token 
• 1 Rules booklet
Overview of the game
In a game of Pioneers, the players attempt to populate the cities 
shown on the game board with their pioneers, using coaches 
to transport them around the map. Each pioneer has a specific 
profession, and can only be settled in a city where their work is 
needed. After all the pioneers riding in a coach have been 
deployed on the game board, the player controlling the coach 
earns money and victory points. 
In addition, the players construct roads between the cities, 
expanding their own network and earning money from other players 
who use the roads. At the end of the game, each player will be 
rewarded with additional victory points based on the number of 
their pioneers in their largest network of connected roads.
The player with the most victory points is the winner of the game!
A game by 
Emanuele Ornella
for 2–4 players
8 years or older
People from all over Europe are surging into the “New World” – America – hoping to start new lives. Departing from the East Coast, pioneers 
move westward colonizing the land.

1. Place the game board in the center of the playing area, with 
the side appropriate for the number of players facing up. 
 
 
 
When playing with only two players, place the 
covering tiles over the eight cities along the far 
edge of the game board, as shown in the illustration. 
These spaces will not be used in the game – the 
stagecoach token can travel neither onto nor through 
these spaces.
Setting up the game
 B Note: The image of a 1 or 2 dollar coin on any of the components means that 
the player will earn that amount of money. The image of a number preceded by 
a dollar sign means that the player is required to pay that amount of money.
2. Depending on the number of players, remove the following 
pioneer tiles:
• In a 2-player-game, remove two pioneer tiles of each 
type; return these tiles to the game box.
• In a 3-player-game, remove one pioneer tile of each type; 
return these tiles to the game box.
• In a 4-player game, remove no pioneer tiles.
Gather all the tiles to be used in the game, flip them so 
their back sides face up, and mix them thoroughly. 
Randomly place one tile on each city space, and then turn 
the pioneer tiles so that the front sides face up.
Any leftover tiles will not be used in this game, and are 
returned to the game box.
 
ANote: If two identical pioneer tiles were placed on both of the 
city spaces adjacent to the starting space, exchange one of 
these tiles with an unused tile (repeat this process, if necessary, 
until there are two different tiles on the two spaces).
 B Note: Players can also choose to place the 
covering tiles over random cities.

Section 1: 
Income
Section 2: 
Purchase
Section 3: 
Movement and 
colonizing
 “0” space of the 
scoring track
starting space
3. Randomly determine a first player and give them the first player marker.
Sort the dollar coins by their value, and keep them near the game board as a common supply. 
Mix the gold nuggets face-down, and put them next to the game board as well.
Place the stagecoach token on the starting space.
4. Set aside the four starting coaches (longer than the normal coaches), and then turn 
the remaining coaches face down, mix them, and stack them in the designated place 
next to the game board. According to the chart below, remove a number of coaches 
from the stack and return them to the game box without anyone looking at them.
 
Number of players
Coaches
 
Next, fill the display of coaches along the lower edge of the 
game board. Draw coaches from the stack and place 
them in the designated spaces, from left to right.
5. Each player chooses a player color, and takes the correspon-
ding player board, shop tile, scoring marker, 
pioneers, and roads. In addition, each player takes 
two dollars from the common supply. 
The player boards are divided into three sections: 
income (section 1), purchase (section 2) and movement 
and colonizing (section 3). Each player places their 
shop tile on the leftmost space in the purchase 
section of their player board.
Each player places one of their pioneers 
on the starting space on the game board, 
and one pioneer on each space on their 
starting coach. The players keep their 
remaining pioneers, as well as their 
roads, next to their player boards as their 
personal supplies.
Each player places their scoring marker 
on the “0” space on the scoring track.
Mix the four starting coaches face 
down, and randomly give one to each 
player. Each player then places their 
starting coach face up in their own 
play area. Return unused starting 
coaches to the game box.

Bill (green) takes $4 from the common supply: 
$3 as his basic income and $1 because he has 
already acquired one Banker tile.
Katie (yellow) places 
her shop tile on the 
one road purchase 
space, pays the $2 
cost, and places one of 
her roads on the game 
board. Additionally, 
she uses a Merchant 
tile to buy one coach 
from the display of 
coaches, paying the 
appropriate cost and 
placing the coach in 
front of her.
Section 1: Income
Basic- 
Income
+$1 for each 
Banker tile
+$1 for each 
Banker tile
Section 2: Purchase
 Shop tile
 Merchant tile
Phase 2: U Purchase
During this phase a player may construct roads or buy a new coach.
Section 2: Purchase of the player board shows three possible purchase actions:
Playing the game
Pioneers is played over a series of game rounds. Beginning with the first player, and proceeding clockwise, each player takes one turn 
each round. The game ends at the end of the round if, during that round, at least one player has constructed all their roads and/or the last 
coach of the stack has been put into the display, whichever happens first. Then, final scoring takes place.
Phase 1: U Income
The player receives their income, in dollars, from the common supply.
The amount of their income is shown on the player board in Section 1: Income.
The basic income is 3 dollars.
If a player gains a Banker tile during the course of the game, they place it on an 
empty space in the income section of their player board. Their income is increased by 
1 dollar for each Banker tile in their income section.
A player may have no more than two Banker tiles.
A player’s turn in detail
A player’s turn consists of three phases, to be performed in this order:
Phase 1: U Income 
 
Phase 2: U Purchase 
Phase 3: U Movement and Colonizing
First, the player receives income, in dollars. Then, he/she purchases roads and/or coaches. Finally, the player moves the stagecoach 
token to a city space with a pioneer tile, settling a matching pioneer there and performing the special action of the tile. 
Then, the next player takes their turn.
 
ANote: A purchase action covered by a tile cannot be used 
again during this turn.
The player may buy one 
road from their personal 
supply for 2 dollars, and 
place it on the game board 
immediately.
The player may buy two 
roads from their personal 
supply for 5 dollars, and 
place them on the game 
board immediately. 
The player may buy one of 
the four coaches from the 
coaches display, paying the 
purchase price as shown on 
the game board.
In order to use one of the three purchase actions, the player 
moves their shop tile onto the corresponding purchase space, 
and then performs that action.
If a player gains a Merchant tile during the course of the game, 
they place it on an empty space in the purchase section of their 
player board. For each Merchant tile they have, a player may 
perform one additional action during the purchase phase of their 
turn. To do so, the player moves the Merchant tile onto one of 
the unoccupied purchase spaces and performs the action. 
A player may have no more than two Merchant tiles.

Annie (red) has payed $5 to construct two roads. She places one 
road directly in front of the stagecoach token, and the other in a 
space which she thinks will be profitable later in the game.
Jim (blue) pays $2 to take the second coach from the display. He 
places the coach in front of him and puts one of his pioneers on 
each of the available spaces on the coach. 
Then the display is refilled.
Katie (yellow) moves the stagecoach token three times. There is no 
road on the first line, so she pays $1 to the common supply. For the 
second move, she pays $1 to Annie (red), and her third move is free 
because she owns the road on that line.
 
 Buying a coach from the display:
The player picks one of the four available coaches from the 
display, pays (to the common supply) the purchase price as 
shown on the game board above the coach, and places the 
coach in front of them. They then place one pioneer from their 
personal supply on each space on the coach.
 
ANote: If a player does not have a sufficient number of pioneers in 
their personal supply to fill all the spaces on a coach, they may not 
buy that coach.
 
AImportant: If a player has only empty coaches at the start of their 
turn, they must use their first purchase action to buy a coach from 
the display. In rare cases the player might not have a sufficient 
number of pioneers left in their supply to be able to place one on 
each space of the coaches available from the display: Then they 
may only use their purchase actions to buy roads. They may not 
perform Phase 3: U Movement and colonizing.
After a coach has been purchased, the display must be replenished. 
To do so, slide each of the coaches that were to the right of the chosen 
coach one space to the left, leaving the fourth space ($4) open. Take 
the topmost coach from the stack and put it face up in that space.
A player may decide to forfeit the purchase action and proceed straight to Phase 3: U Movement and colonizing (unless they 
have only empty coaches currently, in which case they have to purchase a coach).
The purchase actions in detail
 
 
 
 Buying and placing roads:
The player pays the cost of their chosen action to the common 
supply und constructs the road(s) on the game board, taken 
from their personal supply. A road may be constructed on any 
line connecting two cities that doesn’t already have a road on it. 
Only one road can be constructed on each such line (exception: 
the special action granted by the Sergeant tile, see page 6).
Phase 3: U Movement and colonizing
a) Move the stagecoach token
The player must move the stagecoach token, along the 
connecting lines, from one city to the next in order to reach 
a city with a pioneer tile matching a pioneer in one of his 
coaches. Each move, from one city to another, costs 1 dollar.
• If there is no road on the line, the money is paid to the 
common supply.
• If there is a road on the line belonging to another player, 
the money is paid to that player.
• If there is a road on the line that belongs to the player that 
is moving the stagecoach token, that move is free.

Annie (red) moves the stagecoach token to the city with the Sergeant 
tile, takes it and places her corresponding pioneer on the city.
 
Annie (red) places the road right next to the yellow road.
a)
b)
Immediate special actions:
These actions must be performed immediately when the tile is taken. Subsequently, the tile is put back into the game box.
b) Settle your pioneer in a city
The player ends the movement of the stagecoach token by 
moving it into a city containing a pioneer tile. The pioneer 
tile is replaced with a pioneer from a corresponding space 
(with the same image as the tile) on one of the player’s 
coaches.
If the pioneer tile is a Hotel, the player may place any 
pioneer from their coaches on that city.
 
AImportant: The maximum number of roads connecting two 
cities is two! 
Permanent special actions: 
Banker: The tile is placed on an empty space in the income section of the player’s board. The 
player’s income during the U Income phase is increased by $1 for each of the Banker tiles they 
have. A player may have no more than two Banker tiles, and any further such tiles they would gain 
are simply returned to the box instead.
Merchant: The tile is placed on an empty space in the purchase section of the player’s board. 
During their U Purchase phase, the player may perform one additional action for each 
Merchant tile they have. A player may have no more than two Merchant tiles, and any further 
such tiles they would gain are returned to the box instead.
c) Special actions
The pioneer tile just taken from the city grants a specific special action to the active player. 
There are two types of special actions: permanent actions and immediate actions.
Sergeant: The player may construct one road from their personal supply on the game board for free.
a) It may be placed on any unoccupied connecting line.
b) It may be placed on a connecting line already occupied by exactly one road of another player.
If a player moves the stagecoach token along a connecting line with 
two roads, they must pay $2: $1 to the owner of each road. 
However, if one of the roads is their own, the movement is free.
 
AImportant movement rules:
• The stagecoach token must end its movement if it reaches a city containing a pioneer tile – it cannot move through a city with such a tile.
• The active player must move the stagecoach token, if he/she can reach a city with a pioneer tile that matches a pioneer on 
one of his/her coaches. If there is no such city, or the player does not have enough money to pay for the movement, the player is 
not allowed to move the stagecoach token and must pass in this phase of the turn.
• If the active player moves the stagecoach token, he/she may never end its movement on a city without a pioneer tile.

Jim (blue) moves the stagecoach token into a city with a 
Barkeeper tile. He takes the tile and places his Barkeeper 
pioneer on the city. Then, he uses the immediate action of 
the Barkeeper to take his Banker pioneer and place it back 
into his personal supply.
Katie (yellow) moves to a city with a Farmer tile. In total 
she places 3 Farmer pioneers from her coaches on that city.
Bill (green) moves to a city with a hotel tile and places a 
banker pioneer in the city. He then begins to ask if another 
player wants to join him. Annie (red) is first, but does not 
have a banker pioneer. Jim (blue) is next, but has no money. 
Finally, Katie (yellow) is asked. She decides to join in, 
pays Bill $2, and places a banker pioneer from one of her 
coaches into the city.
Katie (yellow) has emptied 2 of her 
coaches in one turn. She gets 7 and 
4 victory points. 
She then turns over 
both of the coaches 
and takes $2 ($1 for 
each coach).
Annie (red) moves the 
stagecoach token to the 
Hotel and decides to settle 
the Sergeant there. Then 
she takes 3 dollars.
Barkeeper: The player may return 
any one pioneer form any one of their 
coaches to their personal supply. If they 
have no pioneers on their coaches at this 
time, the action is wasted.
Gold digger: The player takes one gold 
nugget from the common supply, looks at 
it without revealing it to the other players, 
and puts it face down in front of them.
Farmer: The player may immediately 
settle up to two more pioneers in that city. 
These additional pioneers must come 
from “Farmer” spaces in their coaches 
(thus a maximum of three of any one 
player’s Farmer pioneers on a city space). 
Hotel: The player gains 3 Dollars 
from the common supply.
Empty coaches
As soon as a player manages to empty one of their coaches completely 
(there are no more pioneers in the coach), the player advances their 
scoring marker on the scoring track by the number of victory points 
shown on that coach. Additionally, they flip the coach to its back and 
immediately gain 1 dollar from the common supply.
d) Invite other players to settle one of their pioneers
Finally, up to one player may join the active player in the settlement of 
the city. The active player invites the other players, one at a time, starting 
with the next player to the left and continuing in a clockwise direction, 
to join them settling the city. The first player to agree must pay $2 to 
the active player, and then places one pioneer from one of their coaches 
in the city. The pioneer must match the pioneer tile the active player 
removed from the city. Once one player has agreed, no further players 
will have the opportunity to do so. It is possible that no other player 
will want to join, or be able to do so. Note that the player that joins 
does not get to use the special action of the tile that was on the city.
 
AImportant: If the active player had placed any pioneer of their choice 
due to a Hotel tile, the player joining them must place a pioneer of 
the same kind.
At the end of the turn, the active player returns their shop tile, and any used Merchant tiles, to the appropriate spaces in the 
upper part of the purchase section of their player board.
Then, the next player in clockwise direction takes their turn.
 
A
Important: Moving to a city with a Hotel tile enables the player to place a 
pioneer of his/her choice on that city in phase 3b) U 
Settle your pioneer in 
a city. However the player is not allowed to use that pioneer’s special action!

© Copyright 2017 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. 
 All rights reserved.
Annie (red) 
gains 2 VP.
She gains 9 VP total 
for her gold nuggets.
Annie (red) has constructed two road networks. The top one is the larger one, connecting 
8 pioneers along 6 roads. She gains 2 VP for each pioneer in that network, resulting in a 
total of 16 VP.
End of the game and final scoring
The game ends after the end of the round if, during that round, at least one player has constructed all their roads and/or the last coach of the 
stack has been flipped up and added to the display, whichever happens first. The players continue playing until the round is finished – after 
the player to the right of the first player has finished their turn. Then, the players proceed with final scoring.
During the final scoring the players are awarded victory points for the following:
2. Gold nuggets – Each player reveals the values of their gold nuggets, adds 
them up, and scores a number of victory points equal to the total.
3. Largest road network – 
Each player gains 2 victory points for each of 
their own pioneers in their most populous 
contiguous road network.
A road network is a group of cities linked 
together by a contiguous set of roads belong-
ing to a particular player. It is not necessary for 
each of the pioneers in the network to belong to 
that player, but only the pioneers owned by the 
player who owns the road network will score 
for them. The network may have splits or junc-
tions, as long as an uninterrupted link can be 
traced between each city that is connected.
 
AImportant: A player’s largest network is 
the network they own that contains the 
largest number of their own pioneers – not 
necessarily the network that contains the 
most of their own roads.
1. Empty coach spaces – Each empty space in each of a player’s face-up 
coaches is worth 1 victory point.
The player with the most victory points is the winner of Pioneers! In case of a tie for the most victory points, 
the tied player owning the most dollars is the winner. If the tie persists, the tied players share the victory.
• Paying $2 to join another player settling a city can be very effective, 
despite being unable to use the special action of the pioneer tile:
 L It allows a player to empty their coaches more quickly, bring-
ing money and victory points.
 L It can ensure that a pioneer is placed, which is especially 
useful in situations where there are few pioneer tiles of that 
type left on the board.
 L It could allow the player to get another pioneer directly into 
their road network.
• If a player has pioneers of types for which there are no correspond-
ing tiles remaining on the board, there are still two ways to get 
those pioneers out of their coaches:
 L A hotel tile allows the player to place the pioneer of their choice.
 L The special action of the barkeeper allows the player to return 
any one pioneer from one of their coaches 
to their personal supply.
 B Hints and Tricks:
• Extending their road network provides a player with many benefits. Aside from awarding victory points at the end of the 
game, the road network also generates money during the game, when other players use it, and can allow the owner to 
move longer distances for smaller costs, providing greater flexibility in movement choices.