For 3-5 players
ages 8 and above
60-90 minutes
For 3-5 players
ages 8 and above
60-90 minutes
A game 
of swashbuckling
and daring !
A game 
of swashbuckling
and daring !

Components 
Inside the box of treasures lie: 
N 1 Board map representing the seas and surrounding 
islands near Pirate’s Cove 
N 7 Pirate ship miniatures (1 per player & 2 Legendary 
Pirate black ships)
N 5 Pirate Ship Mats and Captain’s Wheels (1 each per
player)
N 5 Wooden Fame markers (1 per player)
N 20 Strength markers (wooden rings – 
4 in each player’s color) 
N 112 Illustrated cards: 
• 60 Treasure cards
• 5 Legendary Pirate summary cards
• 1 Royal Navy summary card
• 42 Tavern cards (Tavern on the back)
- 4 Parrot cards 
- 7 Mastercraft cards
- 14 Combat cards 
(8 Battle and 6 Volley cards)
- 8 Event cards
- 9 Fame cards (5 x1, 3 x2, 1 x3)
• 4 Blank cards (1 Legendary Pirate card, 
1 Event card, 1 battle and 1 volley combat 
cards)
N 44 Doubloons (24 worth 1 gold and 20 worth 5 gold)
N Treasure chests (Brown wooden cubes)
N 6 wooden dice
N 1 Rules booklet
N 1 Summary Card 
N 1 Days of Wonder Online access number 
(located on back of Rules)
L
egendary home of lore and plunder… hideaway of pirates and buccaneers…
Pirate’s Cove haunts the hearts and minds of every young lad who yearns 
for a life at sea. Starting with a modestly outfitted sloop salvaged from last
winter’s storm, you set sail to Pirate’s Cove one early morning, your eyes filled with
visions of treasure and fame, your lungs filled with the salty air of the High Seas. 
TAVERN
Event
Fame
Parrot
Combat
Mastercraft
Blank card
TREASURE
PIRATES
Doubloon
Fame 
Doubloon
Treasure
Tavern card(s)
Treasure 

Each player chooses:
N a Pirate ship miniature of the color of his choice
N Four Strength markers and a Fame marker that match his
ship color
N a Pirate ship mat 
N a Captain’s wheel
N One doubloon of 5 gold and four of 1 gold, for a total of 9 gold.
N a Tavern card (drawn from the top of the stack at Tavern Island)
Note: When playing for the first time, first remove the dou-
bloons and Captain’s Wheels from the punchboard. To
assemble the wheels, remove the small center circle from
the wheel and fix a black plastic arrow to the front of the
wheel, using the small black plastic piece to hold it in
place from the back of the wheel. If the wheel spins too loo-
sely, reverse the black plastic piece on the back.
Each player puts his fame marker on the Jolly Roger start-
ing spot on the fame track running along the map’s border.
Throughout the game, each time a player wins fame points,
he will immediately advance his marker accordingly. 
Each player lays the Pirate ship mat in front of him. Each
player then puts his four Strength markers on their start-
ing position – the second position from the left on the
Pirate ship mat, as indicated by that section’s skull icon
- and stores his doubloons next to his ship mat.
All remaining doubloons, and all treasure chests are
then buried on Treasure Island (#6), in the center of the
board. 
One of the Legendary Pirate black ships starts the game
moored at Tavern Island (#1), so place her there. Reveal the
first Legendary Pirate card from the stack next to the board
and place it by the black ship.
If you are playing with three players, a second Legendary
Pirate black ship is anchored off Cannon Island (#4) at the start
of the game. Reveal a Legendary Pirate summary card for that
second ship, and place it next to her. 
You are now ready to set sail and become the most famous
pirate of the Caribbean!
Setting up the Game
Place the board map of Pirate’s Cove 
in the center of the table.
Shuffle the Treasure cards, and 
place them in stacks of twelve 
each, on their matching spot on 
each of the outer islands 
(Islands 1 through 5)
Shuffle the Tavern 
cards and place them, 
face down, on the matching 
spot on Tavern Island.
Take the Legendary Pirate cards (with the ship illustration
on back). Set aside the Royal Navy card face up, next to
the board and shuffle the remaining Legendary Pirate
cards before placing them face down next to the board. 

Object of the Game 
Your objective is to sail the islands off Pirate’s Cove and become
the most famed and feared pirate the world has ever seen (well,
this year, at least)! To do so, you will in turn need to navigate
shrewdly, fight recklessly and plunder mercilessly. You will gain
fame by winning fights, burying gold and treasure, and bragging
about your exploits at the Tavern. At the end of twelve months
(game turns), the pirate with the most fame will be declared win-
ner of the game and most fearsome Pirate of the High Seas!
Know your ship
Before sailing in these pirate-infested waters, each aspir-
ing buccaneer should take stock of his ship. 
A ship’s sea-worthiness and battle-readiness is set by the
level of its equipment in 4 distinct sections of the ship as
indicated by the Strength markers:
- the Hull, which dictates how much treasure
can be safely loaded aboard her; 
- the Crew, which, when paired with cannons,
decides how many dice are rolled in combat; 
- the Cannon, which, when manned by a
crew, decides how many dice are rolled in combat;
- the Sails, the more deployed, the faster
and more maneuverable the ship. 
Important: To each man his cannon and vice-versa! The
attack capability of a ship (which dictates how many dice are
rolled in battle, see Combat page 6) is determined by the
lowest number of the ship’s current crew and cannon level.
Hence a ship with 2 crew members and 3 cannon or one with
3 crew and 2 cannon will roll 2 dice in battle, while a ship
with 3 crew and 3 cannon will roll 3.
Rigging her properly…
At the beginning of the game, before the first turn, each
pirate gets a chance to rig his ship to his liking. You can
upgrade any or all of the sections of your ship by paying an
upgrade cost. To upgrade one of your ship’s sections, move the
Strength marker for that section to its desired level. Using your
gold doubloons, you must pay the upgrade cost indicated in
white next to that level by moving the corresponding number
of gold doubloons from your hull to Treasure Island. Upgrade
costs are cumulative, so upgrading your sails from 5 to 7 costs
1+2 = 3 gold. The rigging of ships at the start of the game is
done simultaneously, without prior knowledge of the other
players’ chosen rig settings.
Compass 
Throughout the game, some actions will be performed on
successive islands in what is referred to as westward (or clock-
wise) order. This westward
order is: the five outer islands,
(Tavern, Hull, Sail, Cannon, and
Crew island) numbered 1
through 5, followed by Treasure
Island (6), in the center of the
map, and finally Pirate’s Cove,
off center.
1. Treasure – Turn over the top card from the stack of Treasure cards on
each of the outer islands 1 - 5. Listed on each card are the rewards for capturing
this island this turn. Pirate cards run out on the 12th and last turn of the
game. 
The Game Turn
The game is played over 12 consecutive months (game turns). Whoever gains the most fame by the end of the year is
declared winner of the game. Each turn is divided into 6 distinct phases:

2. Navigation – Secretly set the arrow on your Captain’s Wheel to the island
you want to sail to and plunder. Reveal all captains’ wheels simultaneously and
move each pirate’s ship to her destination.
3. Combat – Beginning with ships moored off Tavern Island and proceeding in
westward direction, resolve any combat. Combat occurs on any outer island (islands
1 – 5) where 2 or more ships are present, and on Treasure Island when running into
a Legendary Pirate anchored there. Each combat is made of a preparatory Battle
phase, followed by successive firings of Volleys. Combat continues until one lone
player ship remains on the island; or until all player ships have been either crip-
pled or fled to Pirate’s Cove. 
4. Plunder –Beginning with Tavern Island and proceeding westward, any sur-
viving ship occupying an outer island is free to plunder it. Her captain takes the
corresponding Treasure card and receives the indicated amount of gold, treasure,
Tavern cards and fame points. If treasure, gold, or Tavern cards run out, you get
none, hence the importance of plundering in order.
5. Upgrade – Beginning with Tavern Island and proceeding westward, each
player may take advantage of the “upgrades” available on the island he occupies:
N On Tavern Island, to purchase up to 3 Tavern cards at a cost of 2 gold each;
N On Hull, Sail, Cannon or Crew Island, to upgrade his ship’s corresponding
section as much as desired, by paying the corresponding cumulative
upgrade costs;
N On Pirate’s Cove, to draw 2 tavern cards (or 1 Tavern card and 2 gold) from
the stack, and repair his crippled ship. 
N On Treasure Island, to bury treasures and gold for fame (1 fame point for each
treasure or 3 gold pieces) and/or upgrade any one section of his ship 1 level
at twice its regular cost; 
6. Move black ships & check treasures –Move the Legendary Pirate
black ship(s) one island westward each. Pirate’s Cove is a safe haven from Legendary
Pirates, so after Treasure Island, the black ship moves back to Tavern Island. If a
Legendary Pirate was defeated during combat, draw a new card from the Legendary
Pirate deck to replace it. If needed, reshuffle that discard pile. Check Treasure loads,
and throw off any treasure on board a ship that exceeds its hull capacity. Discarded
treasure is returned back to Treasure Island. Finally discard any remaining face-up
Treasure card left on the islands.
FIGHT
3 X
X 2
MAX
1 Fame
1 Fame
2 3 4 5 6
or

Combat
Pirates are a rowdy and jealous bunch: any outer island (#1
– #5) where more than one ship (including any other players’
ship, the Royal Navy and any Legendary Pirate ship) chooses
to moor, bears witness to an epic naval battle. Combat may also
erupt on Treasure Island, if a player runs into a Legendary
Pirate anchored there. Battles are won when you either crip-
ple your opponent(s) by inflicting enough damage to force one
of their strength markers off their ship’s lowest level; or if they
flee from your onslaught. 
Order of Combat
Battles are fought in westward order, starting from Tavern
Island on. 
Battles are resolved by preparation for battle followed by
successive rounds of Firing Volleys:
1. Preparing for Battle – Battle cards are played, at
each player’s option.
2.First round of volleys fired:
a. The fastest ship either:
- Fires a volley at another ship;
- Or Flees to the safety of Pirate’s Cove.
b. The second fastest ship, if not crippled, 
either:
- Fires a volley at another ship;
- Or Flees to the safety of Pirate’s Cove.
c. Play continues in order of decreasing speed 
until all ships have had the opportunity to fire a 
volley, retreat to Pirate’s Cove, or be crippled before
having a chance to fight.
3. Second and all subsequent rounds: Additional
rounds of firing volleys then occur in similar fashion in order
of decreasing ship’s speed until all opposing ships have been
crippled and one lone player ship remains on the island; or until
all player ships have been crippled or opted to flee to Pirate’s
Cove.
The ships’ current Sails level at the beginning of each vol-
ley determines their relative speed. If a ship’s Sails get dam-
aged, its speed, hence its order of play, might change from one
combat round to the next.
Throughout the Combat, Plunder and Upgrade phases, the
fastest ship on an island always acts first. If two or more
pirates have the same level of Sails, each rolls a die against the
other(s) to break the tie in favor of the highest number. All
other ties throughout the game are decided by using the same
dice roll mechanism.
Preparing for Battle –
(optional) card playing
Starting with the player with the fastest
ship, players may play any one Battle card
they wish from their hand. The card played
is read aloud and its effect applied 
immediately. 
The second fastest player may then play a card, or pass, fol-
lowed by the third fastest, etc. The playing of Battle cards con-
tinues in successive turns until each participant in the battle
chooses to pass during the same turn. 
A player can pass, then play a Battle card later on as long as
one of the other combating players has played a Battle card
since that pass. 
Battle cards last the entire duration of the combat they are
played in. They are discarded at the end of the combat, regard-
less of whether they took effect or not.
Battle cards can only be played on behalf of a player’s own
ship, never on behalf of the Royal Navy or the
Legendary Pirates.
Firing volleys
A player deciding to fire a volley:
1. Plays any Volley card(s) he desires,
prior to any roll of the dice. The effect of
the Volley card only applies to the upcom-
ing dice roll. The card is then discarded, regardless of its suc-
cessful use or not. Volley cards can never be played on behalf
of the Royal Navy or a Legendary Pirate.
2. Announces in a strong voice whose ship, and which sec-
tion (Hull, Cannon, Crew, or Sail) of that ship, he intends to
fire his cannons at. Legendary Pirates’ ships and the Royal Navy
can only be attacked on their Hulls.
3. Rolls a number of dice equal to the lowest of his levels
of Crew and Cannons. Each roll of 5 or 6 is a hit. With each hit,
the attacked ship loses one level in its targeted section. It’s
strength marker is moved down (left) one level to reflect the
damage taken and lowered capability. 
If a Legendary Pirate and/or the Royal Navy are present on
the island and the player stays to fight, he must target his vol-
leys at them until all such ships have been sunk. Only then will
he be able to direct his cannons at fellow players’ ships, if any
is still present. 
If the section attacked features a Mastercraft or Parrot card,
that card absorbs the first two hits prior to any damage to that
section. On the first hit, the card is turned sideways to show
its damage and on the second it is discarded. Only then do fur-
ther hits on that section cause the strength marker to be low-
ered (moved left). 
Volley cards can never be played on behalf of the player-
controlled Royal Navy, only on behalf of the players’ own

ships. Legendary Pirates never play any cards; they are pow-
erful enough without them.
Fleeing
Sometimes discretion is the better part of valor. During his
turn in combat, a pirate may decide to escape by fleeing to
Pirate’s Cove. If the ship has been hit during combat prior to
fleeing, all opponents remaining on the island receive 1 point
of fame upon seeing her flee. 
If a ship flees to Pirate’s Cove without having been crippled
(that is, without having one of its strength marker’s pushed off
its lowest level), its captain runs the risk of a mutiny. He rolls
1 die; if he rolls a 1, a mutiny occurs. The crew, tired of work-
ing for a cowardly captain revolts and takes over the ship.
The player loses all gold and treasure on board, and its cap-
tain walks the plank (-2 fame points). 
Legendary Pirates and the Royal Navy never flee.
Forced retreat
If any of the ship’s sections receives so much damage that
its strength marker gets pushed off its lowest level, the ship
can no longer fight and is crippled. To save his crew, the cap-
tain must immediately sail to Pirate’s Cove for rest and repair. 
A crippled ship brings all remaining opponents on that
island 1 point of fame. 
Note that it is possible for a slow ship to get crippled before
her captain ever gets a chance to fight. 
Safe havens
No player-to-player combat 
on Treasure Island
Rival player pirates have a long-standing gentlemen’s
agreement never to fight each other on Treasure Island. 
Legendary Pirates such as Blackbeard however, are no gen-
tlemen: they will shoot down any one that sails across their
bow, regardless of location. 
The location of Treasure Island is a secret known only among
pirates, therefore the Royal Navy will never be found sailing
there.
No combat on Pirate’s cove
Pirate’s Cove is a desolate strand of beach, not worth fight-
ing for. No battle ever occurs there, and no non-player ship
ever visits it.
The End of the Game
At the end of the 12th month (round) all the Treasure cards
are gone from the islands. Each player then reveals any Fame
cards and moves their fame marker accordingly. Any treasure
or gold coins that were not buried on Treasure Island are lost
and worth no fame.
The pirate with the most fame points is declared the winner
and becomes the most fearsome pirate in all the High Seas!
If two or more players are tied for the most fame, these
players must fight to the death. In the final epic battle, the lone
survivor is declared most famous pirate!
You are now ready to set sail… Enjoy your cruise! 
Veteran captains, and those desiring to improve their knowl-
edge of local lore and the customs of Pirate’s Cove should
consult the (in)famous Guide to Pirate’s Cove, which begins on
the following page, before heading back out to the High Seas.
• Scoring •
Fame points are LOST by
N Walking the plank due to a mutiny (-2 points)
N Getting your parrot killed (-2 points) or dismissing
it (-1 point). See parrots page 10.
Pirates GAIN fame 
from each of the following actions
N Winning Battles (1 point per player that is defeated
or flees after being hit)
N Plundering an island (fame value on the Treasure
card)
N Defeating Legendary Pirates & the Royal Navy (fame
value on the card)
N Burying treasures (1 fame each) and gold (1 fame for
each 3)
N Collecting Fame cards

Guide to Pirate’s Cove 
and Surrounding Islands
Upgrading
When upgrading, the small white number located next to the
desired level of upgrade indicates the cost of the upgrade, in gold.
To upgrade the same section several levels at once, pay the cumulative
cost of each individual upgrade. To move your sails from a speed level
of 5 to 7, for instance, pay 1+2 = 3 gold. No one is required to upgrade
his ship (except for crippled ships on Pirate’s Cove. See Pirate's
Cove, next page). Whether you do, and how much, is solely dependent
on your wealth and desire.
Cannon Island
Upgrade the ship’s Cannon as
many levels as desired and can
be afforded. Play a Mastercraft card from
hand, if desired. 
Treasure Island
Bury treasures from the ship’s
hold for 1 point of fame each.
Bury gold, at the rate of 1 point of fame for 3
gold. 
You may also upgrade any single section of
your ship a maximum of 1 level, at double the
normal upgrade cost. Thus, upgrading your
sails on Treasure Island from a speed level of 5
to 6 will cost you 2x1 = 2 gold, and you will not
be able to upgrade any other section, nor
upgrade your sail section any higher this turn.
Sail Island 
Upgrade the ship’s Sail as many levels as desired and can be afforded. Play a Mastercraft
card from hand, if desired. 

Hull Island
Upgrade the ship’s Hull as many levels as desired and can be afforded. Play a Mastercraft
card from hand, if desired. 
Crew Island
Upgrade the ship’s Crew as
many levels as desired and can
be afforded. Play a Mastercraft card from
hand, if desired. 
Tavern Island
You may buy up to 3 Tavern
cards at a cost of 2 gold each,
during each visit to Tavern Island. Play a
Mastercraft card from hand, if desired.
The Islands
There are thousands of islands scattered throughout the High Seas, but only a handful will cause the blood of any aspiring pirate
to rise in anticipation of legendary battles, uncountable treasures and everlasting fame. And nowhere is there a concentration
of such islands as those in the waters surrounding the legendary Pirate’s Cove. These legendary pirate hideaways include:
N The five outer islands: Tavern, Hull, Sail, Cannon and Crew Islands (# 1 – 5)
N Treasure Island (# 6), 
N Pirate’s Cove itself.
Each of these islands convey a special advantage to their occupant during the Upgrade phase.
Pirate’s Cove 
Collect 1 Tavern card and 2 gold,
or 2 Tavern cards. If your ship
was crippled during battle, you
must repair it by paying 2 gold for each crippled
section. Move the strength marker back onto the
2nd (second foremost left) level of the
corresponding section. 
If several sections of your ship were
simultaneously crippled as a result of being on
the receiving end of a Six-Gun salute or victim
of a Powder keg explosion, you must repair all
crippled sections at once. If you cannot afford
to do so, you are allowed to repair all crippled
sections, but do not receive any Tavern card or
gold from your visit to Pirate’s Cove. 

The Tavern 
and its cards
The tavern on Tavern Island is the most famous watering hole
in all the High Seas. It is the place to trade and barter, share
a bottle of rum and brag about mermaids and wenches… 
Each visit to Tavern Island gives its visitors the opportuni-
ty to buy Tavern cards, at the cost of 2 gold pieces each.
Occasionally, pirates will also receive Tavern cards as a result
of plundering some of the outer islands or fleeing to the safe-
ty of Pirate’s Cove. If the tavern card draw pile runs out,
reshuffle the discard pile back in place.
There are six different types of Tavern cards:
a. Parrot cards
b. Mastercraft cards
c. Event cards
d. Battle combat cards
e. Volley combat cards
f. Fame cards
a. Parrot Cards
Once in a great while, a wise old parrot can be found at the
Tavern, searching for an adventurous new owner. Having spent
many a year perched on the shoulder of some rather notewor-
thy pirates, these birds have picked up some very useful secrets.
One might be willing to share those secrets with their newfound
owner in exchange for the occasional sip of rum and a few
good curses. 
Each of the four parrots has specific knowledge to assist
you with a particular part of your ship (cannon, crew, hull and
sails), as indicated by the corresponding icon on the parrot card. 
N Captain Flint’s parrot –“Shiver my timbers”- You may carry
an unlimited number of treasures.
N Long John Silver’s parrot – “Pieces of Eight” – Always roll
6 dice in combat. Long John Silver’s parrot supersedes the
effect of a Grapple attack Battle card.
N Billy Bones’ parrot – “Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum” –
Always fire all your cannons. Billy Bones’ parrot supersedes
the effect of a Grapple attack Battle card.
N Squire Trelawney’s parrot – “Shew me the man” - Adds +
20 to your speed.
Parrot cards come into effect immediately upon being drawn.
Place the parrot card on the Parrot’s Perch on your ship mat. 
There can never be more than one parrot onboard a ship at
any time. Should you draw a second parrot card, you can choose
to release your current parrot at a cost of 1 point of fame and
take on the new one, or turn down the new one. Any unused par-
rot must be shuffled back into the Tavern deck. Discarding a par-
rot does not entitle you to draw a replacement card.
A parrot is hit in combat whenever the section it advises on
(indicated by an icon on the card) takes a hit. On the first hit,
the parrot is hurt (and its card turned sideways). On a second
hit, the parrot dies. If the parrot is killed, its owner loses 2
points of fame and the Parrot card is then sent to the discard
pile. (Dead parrots tell no tales!). 
Should a Parrot provide advice on a section protected by a
Mastercraft card (see below), the Mastercraft card will always
take the first hits to that section. Parrots are smart enough to
take cover!
If a parrot is hurt during battle but survives to victory or flees
alive to Pirate’s Cove, it will automatically heal its wound.
Put its card back in its initial upward position during the
Upgrade phase.
b. Mastercraft cards 
Many of the outer islands’ natives have become expert
craftsmen over the years, outfitting ships of legend. When
placed on a ship’s section, the Mastercraft card makes this
section of the boat legendarily battle-hardy. 
Mastercraft cards are played during the upgrade phase, by
attaching the card to the section of your ship you would like
to protect. The Mastercraft card can be played even while
mooring at Tavern Island, Treasure Island or Pirate’s Cove.

There can never be more than one Mastercraft card onboard
a ship at any given time. (Alternative rule: Players may agree
to allow multiple Mastercraft cards per ship, but limit them to
one card per ship’s section.) 
In any combat, the Mastercraft card will absorb the first
two hits to that section of your ship. Upon the first hit, the
upgrade is damaged and you flip the card sideways. Upon the
second hit, the upgrade is blown to pieces, and the card dis-
carded for good.
A damaged Mastercraft card can only be repaired by paying
1 gold during the Upgrade phase.
Should a Mastercraft card and a parrot be attached to the
same section of a ship, the Mastercraft will always be attacked
and damaged first during combat. The parrot is smart enough
to take second seat in battle!
c. Event cards
A pirate’s life is filled with travails and surprises and a
number of event cards reflect the ever-changing seas a suc-
cessful pirate must sail through. They are:
N A fond farewell
Played at the end of the Navigation phase, even after a Royal
Navy Intercept card. Let’s you sail your ship to any unoc-
cupied Island or Treasure Island. This card also cancels
the effect of any Consort played on your ship.
N Consort
Played at the end of the Treasure phase. The player of
your choice must share half of the booty he earns this
turn with you. This includes fame, treasure, gold, and tav-
ern cards. The spoils are rounded up in your favor, down
in his. If he goes to Treasure Island and buries treasures
or gold, you split with him the fame he collects there.
N Crow’s nest
Played at the beginning of the Navigation phase, before
players select their island of destination. Instead of being
simultaneous, the navigation phase is done in clockwise
order this round, starting with the player of your choice.
N Going on the account
Played during the Upgrade phase, from any Island including
Tavern and Treasure Island and Pirate’s Cove. You may increase
any 1 section of your ship by one additional level at no cost.
N Privateering commission
Played at the end of the Navigation phase, in reaction to
a Royal Navy card. Send any Royal Navy tipped off to your
whereabouts back to the outer island of your choice. The
Royal Navy cannot be sent to an island occupied by the
player of this card.
N Royal Navy Intercept (x 2)
Played at the end of the Navigation phase, after players
have revealed their destination of choice. Send the Royal
Navy to the outer island of your choice. The Navy has never
found Treasure Island, nor Pirate’s Cove, so you cannot
send her there. The Royal Navy always rolls 4 dice in attacks;
she takes 4 hits before sinking; has Sail value of 20; and is
worth 4 Fame points if defeated. The Royal Navy cannot be
sent to an island occupied by the player of this card.
N Secret map
Played at the end of the Treasure phase. Roll 1 die and
place a treasure marker on the outer island number that
corresponds to the die. If you get a 6, re-roll the die. If
you capture the island thus designated during the next
turn, double the value of any treasure plundered from it.

Battle and Volley combat cards
Pirates and buccaneers have always been exceptionally fero-
cious combatants. There are two types of Combat cards that are
played during a battle. Battle cards must be played in turn, one
at a time, from fastest to slowest ship; they remain in effect for
the entire duration of combat. Volley cards must be played
before any volley and are only in effect for that volley.
d. Battle Cards
N Avast belay! 
For the rest of this battle (including any firing volley), no
other card can be played by anyone. Cards played prior to
Avast Belay during battle (if any), stay in effect for the
duration of the battle and are not canceled.
N Blow me down! X 2
For the rest of this battle, your sail has a bonus of + 6. The
two “Blow me down!” cards can be played together for
cumulative effect, when owned by the same player.
N Grapple attack x 2
For the rest of this battle, everyone rolls the number of dice
indicated by their crew, regardless of their number of
cannons. Billy Bones and Long John Silver’s parrots super-
sede the effect of any grapple attack. 
N Smoke screen x 2
For the rest of this battle, you can only be hit on rolls of 6. 
N Treasure over board
For the rest of this battle, your sail is increased by a speed
bonus of +2 for each treasure you throw overboard. Move
as many treasures as you want from your hull onto the card.
At the end of the battle, this treasure is thrown back onto
Treasure Island and the card discarded.
e. Volley Cards
N Grapeshot attack x 2 
For the next volley only, rolls of 3, 4, 5 or 6 hit the enemy.
Afterwards, your cannons receive 2 hits of damage. If this
cripples your ship, you must retreat to Pirate’s Cove. A
Grapeshot attack supersedes the effect of a Smoke screen,
for the volley it is used on. Beware of using Grapeshot if
you have Long John Silver’s parrot on board: if he is not
protected by a Mastercraft card on the ship’s cannons, the
after-shock of the Grapeshot will kill him off!
N Powder keg x 2 
For the next volley only, any hit does 1 of damage to every
ship's hull (yours included!). Hence, 3 simultaneous hits on
a roll of 5 dice will inflict 3 points of damage to the Hull of
all the ships present in this combat! This effect is cumula-
tive with the hit themselves for the ship attacked, if its Hull
was targeted during the volley. This card can be played out
of turn (ie during the volley card playing phase of one of your
opponents, before his roll of dice). Veteran pirates keep this
shot as a last resort when vastly outgunned, usually when
facing the deadly combination of a legendary pirate and the
Royal Navy. If you own Captain Flint’s parrot, think before
using this card, or you will send him back to his ancestors!
N Six Gun Salute x 2 
For the next volley only, any hit inflicts damages to all the
sections of the enemy’s ship simultaneously. However,
during the next volley, your guns need to be reloaded and
cannot fire. Pass your turn.
f. Fame cards 
What would pirate’s life be without a few good drinks, the
crew singing sea ballads, and of course the Pirate’s booty?

Fame cards are kept in the player’s hand till the end of the
game, at which point their fame value is totaled and the play-
er’s marker correspondingly advanced on the fame track. 
The Royal Navy
The Royal Navy cruises these waters, trying to keep some
semblance of safety for merchant ships… If another player tips
them off to your whereabouts you might find them in hot pur-
suit of your precious cargo! 
If more than one player occupies an island when the Royal
Navy arrives, Player ships must take out any Royal Navy ship
present - or opt to flee - before fighting each other. 
The player who uses the Royal Navy Intercept or Privateering
Commission card to send the Royal Navy to an outer island,
always rolls the dice for her and gets to decide which ship to fire
at first if there are multiple players ships present. The Royal Navy
cannot be sent to an island occupied by the player who sends it. 
The Royal Navy may only be attacked and hit on her hull,
taking 4 hits to defeat her. Defeating the Royal Navy is worth
4 fame points, which are split among all players present who sur-
vive the combat. Fame points that cannot be distributed even-
ly are rounded down to the nearest whole number. 
The Royal Navy cannot play any combat cards (though they
might be affected by some played by players’ ships). They can-
not flee or fight against a Legendary Pirate. 
At the end of any battle (win or lose) the Royal Navy is
removed from the board.
The Legendary Pirates 
Famous Pirates of old haunt the islands surrounding Pirate’s
Cove. Once in a great while, you might sail into their waters.
Often as not, this leads to outright trouble, as these Legendary
Pirates can be powerful adversaries! 
If, at the end of the navigation phase, you end up on the
same island as a black ship, you are about to face off against
a Legendary Pirate in battle. Which one will depend on the
summary card attached to it. 
The Legendary Pirates fight according to the characteristics on
their respective summary cards. Legendary Pirates may only be
attacked and hit on their hull. During the course of the battle, you
must keep track (for instance using a dice or stack of treasures)
of the current hull value of these ships. Once it reaches zero, the
ship is considered sunk. If the Legendary Pirate defeats all play-
ers on an island, his ship is automatically fully repaired imme-
diately following the end of its successful battle.
All the other capabilities (levels of sails and crew/cannons)
of a Legendary Pirate cannot be attacked, and remain at the value
indicated on their reference card throughout the entire battle.
Dice are rolled on behalf of Legendary Pirates by any play-
er who is not engaged in the current volley of fire. 
Legendary Pirates never play any combat cards (though
they might be affected by some played by players’ ships).
Legendary Pirates never flee from combat, nor do they fight
each other. They know better…
If a Legendary Pirate is defeated by use of a Powder Keg or
Grapeshot attack that results in the player's ship getting crip-
pled, that player earns the fame points for defeating the
Legendary Pirate, earning some consolation as he limps away
to Pirate's Cove.
Legendary Pirate battles with Multiple Players
Player ships must take out any Legendary Pirate ship pres-
ent - or opt to flee - before fighting each other. 
Each ship on the island, including the Legendary Pirate,
shoots once during each round of volleys beginning with the
fastest ship and then in order by decreasing speed. The
Legendary Pirate ship fires at the player with the highest-rank-
ing area of the ship indicated on his particular summary card.
On the next volley he then attacks the player with the second
highest rank in that area, continuing in this manner until he's
fired at all remaining players. Remaining player ships are then
re-ranked by their new relative strengths and battle contin-
ues until either the Legendary Pirate is defeated, or all play-
er ships are either defeated or they flee.
If a Legendary Pirate is sunk, the fame value indicated on
its reference card is immediately split among all players pres-
ent who survive the combat. Fame points that cannot be dis-
tributed evenly are rounded down to the nearest whole num-
ber. Surviving players continue combat until only one player
ship remains.
Here’s a brief overview of the famous pirates known to be
haunting the waters of Pirate’s Cove.

N Edward Teach “Blackbeard”
Blackbeard’s withering volleys, unmatched speed, and
exceptionally sturdy hull make him the most feared oppo-
nent in all the high seas.
In battle: Blackbeard shoots 6 dice against other pirates’
hulls (attacking the pirate with the most cannons first); his Hull
takes 8 hits before sinking; has a Sail value of 24; and is worth
6 Fame points if defeated.
N The Flying Dutchman
The skeleton crew aboard this famed phantom ship gives her
special recuperative powers. If hit in combat, the Flying
Dutchman will regain up to 2 hull points at the end of each com-
bat round (i.e. after all ships in the battle have fired once),
until sunk. She can never exceed her initial Hull value of 5 how-
ever, nor recover hull points lost before the last round of fir-
ing volleys.
In battle: Cannon - 4 dice against crew (attacks largest crew
first); Hull – 5 hits, regains up to 2; Sails – 16; Fame points - 6.
N Captain Hook
Cruelly comic and served by a haphazard crew, Captain Hook’s
ship is a rather unpredictable, if sometimes laughable enemy.
Even when Captain Hook misses in an attack, that shot may hit
one of the other player’s ships present. When Hook is firing a vol-
ley on a player, the remaining players on that island are assigned
a number from 1 to 4 beginning with the player to the left of the
pirate being attacked and moving clockwise. If Hook misses in
his attack, but rolls one of the assigned numbers, then that
player takes the hit.
Hook’s misfires have no effect on non-player ships, nor
ships that are not on the same island.
In battle: Cannon – 3 dice against hull (attacks biggest hull
first); Hull – 5 hits; Sails – 18; Fame points - 3.
N Ann Bonny and Mary Read
Two of only a handful of women pirates in history, Bonny and
Read were said to fight, curse and swear as well as any man.
Any hit by Bonny and Read damages all the sections of the ship
targeted!
In battle: Cannon – 3 dice against all sections (attacks
fastest sails first); Hull – 5 hits; Sails – 22; Fame points - 6.
N The Cacafuego
One of the largest treasure ships ever captured, the Nuestra
Senora de la Concepcion was rather vulgarly nicknamed the
Cacafuego by her own Spanish sailors because of her immense
treasure and almost criminal lack of cannon. 
The Cacafuego is defenseless against attack. Player pirates
battle each other to determine who can pilfer the great rich-
es of this floating treasure chest, but don’t know how much
booty they are fighting until after the battle is won. The vic-
tor rolls a single die and wins as many fame points as indicated
on the die.

Blank Cards
Use the enclosed blank cards to design additional Legendary
Pirate, Battle and Volley combat cards, and other Event cards.
Do not hesitate to post your best suggestions on our forum at
www.piratescovegame.com.

Online Play
Here is your Days of Wonder unique Online Access Number.
To use it, simply visit: www.piratescovegame.comand click on the New Player Signup button on the home page.
Then just follow the instructions to discover variants, discussion forums, additional cards and online version
of our games.
You can also learn about other Days of Wonder games or visit us at: www.daysofwonder.com
Credits
Game design by Paul Randles and Daniel Stahl
in memoriam Paul Randles
With special thanks to Katty Peppermans, 
Brian Lewis, and Bruno Faidutti
License made possible by Carsten Albrecht and Amigo Spiel
“Mutiny” rule inspired by BGG variant from Steve Weeks
Illustrations by Julien Delval
Graphic Design by Cyrille Daujean
Bibliography: Rafael Sabatini Captain Blood; 
Robert Louis Stevenson Treasure Island;
The Woodsworth Dictionary of Pirates by Jan Rogozinski.
© 2004 Days of Wonder, Inc.
199 First Street, Suite 340, Los Altos, CA 94022
www.daysofwonder.com
Days of Wonder and Pirate’s Cove are trademarks of Days of Wonder, Inc. All rights reserved.