Players: 3 Time: 15 mins Ages: 6+
Components: 1 Pizza Game Board; 3 Pizza Cutters (wooden skewers in the 3 player colors); 
3 Wooden Dice in the 3 player colors (showing the numbers 1-6); 48 Pizza Toppings (16 cardboard disks 
showing toppings in each of the 3 player colors); Rules
1. Place the Pizza in the center of the table with the 3 players each directly facing one of the arrows on the
 board. (Players having the proper perspective on the board is important.)
2. Randomly choose a starting player. Rotate the Pizza so that the “1st” text is facing that player.
3. Each player takes a Pizza Cutter (the wooden skewer); a die and the toppings of their color.
4. Each player places a topping (2 total) on the two “X” starting spaces closest to him/her
 (see Figure 1 below).
Each Round follows this sequence:
1. Add Toppings
Following turn order, as designated by 1st, 2nd, 3rd, each player adds 1 of their toppings to the Pizza -- 
onto an empty space that is not next to any of their own toppings. If a player does not have any available 
spaces, they do not add a topping this round.
2. Cut Pizza
Simultaneously, each player chooses a number (1-6) on their die and places it (hidden by cupping your 
hand over it) down on the table. Once all of the players have chosen a number, all 3 dice are revealed and 
each player places their Pizza Cutter across the Pizza on the corresponding line facing them, as designated 
by the number revealed on their die. Players are not allowed to announce or reveal their cut choice before 
everyone has chosen a number.
Setup
Game play
The Pizza Game Board 
(see Figure 1) 
1st, 2nd and 3rd indicates the player turn order.
Numbers 1 through 6 and the corresponding 
dashed lines indicate the six possible cuts 
available to each player. Each player must cut on 
one of the six lines in their designated direction.
The three white arrows indicate which direction 
to rotate the Pizza at the end of each round.
Figure 1 illustrates where each player’s toppings 
start, and the six cuts available to the ﬁrst player.
Figure 1 

3. Replace Toppings
The cuts divide the Pizza into several regions (called slices). In each slice, the player with the most 
toppings replaces all opponents’ toppings with their own. Removed toppings are returned to their 
respective owners. In the case of a 2-way tie for the most toppings, the third player’s toppings are removed 
but not replaced. In a 3-way tie no toppings are removed.
Safety Rule: If a player has no more than 1 topping in any slice, all of that player’s toppings are safe 
and may not be removed or replaced this round.
4. Rotate the Pizza
Each player takes their Pizza Cutter off of the board and returns their die back into their hand. Then, 
following the arrows, rotate the Pizza clockwise until each player has a new turn order designation in front 
of them.
Start a new Round.
1st player (Red) chose cut #5
2nd player (Green) chose cut #6
3rd player (White) chose cut #4
The Pizza is now divided into 5 slices, 
Labeled A through E
Red and Green are tied for most 
toppings, so the White topping is 
removed but not replaced.
No Change
White has the most toppings and 
replaces the Green topping.
Red has the most toppings and replaces 
both the Green and White toppings.
3-way tie, thus No Change.
Slice A: 
Slice B: 
Slice C: 
Slice D: 
Slice E:
Example: Replace Toppings
At the end of a round, if a player has all 16 of their toppings on the Pizza they are the winner. 
Tie breaker: If two players run out of toppings during the same round, whichever player would end with 
more toppings on the Pizza is the winner.
End Game
Before 
After 

Each player chooses a color and takes the toppings, die, and cutter/skewer of that color. The pieces for the 
unselected color are set on the table in easy reach (they will be used).
Randomly choose a starting player. The ﬁrst player will alternate between the two players each round. 
The ﬁrst player is signiﬁed by placing the unselected color’s die in front of him/her (ignore the 1st, 2nd, 
3rd on the board). Set up the board as normal with all three colors (Figure 1).
At the end of a round, if a player has all 16 of their toppings on the Pizza they are the winner. 
If the unselected color has all 16 toppings on the board, both players lose. 
Tie breaker: If two players run out of toppings during the same round, whichever player would end with 
more toppings on the Pizza is the winner.
Each Round follows this sequence:
1. Add Toppings
In turn order, each player adds one of their toppings to the Pizza -- onto an empty space that is not next to 
any of their own toppings. If a player does not have any available spaces, they do not add a topping this 
round.
2. Unselected Color’s Turn
The ﬁrst player rolls the die of the unselected color and places its Pizza Cutter on the board over the line 
that matches the resulting number, from the direction not used by either player. The same player then 
places one topping of the unused color on any empty space touching the Pizza Cutter. Leave that Pizza 
Cutter on the board.
2. Cut Pizza
Simultaneously, each of the two players choose a number (1-6) on their die and place it (hidden by cupping 
your hand over it) down on the table. Once both of the players have chosen a number, both dice are 
revealed and each player places their Pizza Cutter across the Pizza on the corresponding line facing them, 
as revealed by the number on their die. 
3. Replace Toppings
The cuts divide the Pizza into several regions (called slices). In each slice, the color with the most toppings 
replaces all opponents’ toppings with their own. Removed toppings are returned to their respective owners. 
In the case of a two-way tie for the most toppings, the third color’s toppings are removed but not replaced. 
In a three-way tie no toppings are removed.
Safety Rule: If a color has no more than one topping in any slice, all of that color’s toppings are safe 
and may not be removed or replaced this round.
4. Rotate the Pizza
Take all Pizza Cutters off of the board. Then, following the arrows, rotate the Pizza clockwise until each 
player has a new turn order designation in front of them.
Start a new Round.
Setup differences for Two Players
Game End
Game play for Two Players
Designed by: Brian Powers and Greg Powers
Developed by: Rick Soued, for Gryphon Games
 
Art and Graphics by: Charlie Bink
Credits:
www.eagle-gryphon.com
© 2012 Gryphon Games