The strategy game for the football fan in you
INTRODUCTION
Pizza Box Football™is a strategy game designed for football fans. It’s made to be a fun game to play anytime, 
anywhere with anyone from a beginner to a football veteran. If you like football and you know how to roll dice,
you’re already well on your way to enjoying Pizza Box Football.
CONTENTS
• Game Board
• Game Pieces 
– 3 red team score and yardage markers 
– 3 blue team score and yardage markers
– 1 yellow first down marker 
– 6 green game clock, timeouts and downs markers 
• Dice 
– 3 large black Play Dice 
– 5 large white Yardage Dice 
– 1 red Run Defense die
– 1 yellow Short Pass Defense die
– 1 green Long Pass Defense die
– 1 small white Defense Effect die
– 1 small black Punt Coverage die
• Game Cards 
• Instruction Booklet 
• Stat Sheets
#
FRONT
BACK
Play Sequence Card
Dice Symbols Card
Kickoffs & Normal
Punts Card
Professional Time
Stat Sheet 
Symbols Card
Play Descriptions
Field Goal, Recoveries
& Breakaway Factor
Onside Kickoffs &
Short Punts Card

GETTING STARTED
Here’s how to start playing Pizza Box Football™right away!
PLAY CALLING
STRATEGY
ADVANTAGE
OFFENSE PLAY
DEFENSE PLAY
Run
Short
Pass
Long
Pass
Run
Short Pass
Long Pass
STRATEGY
Pizza Box Football is designed for intense competition. 
The Play Calling Strategy Advantage Chart shows that each
player can create an advantage for his team on every play.
How well you do will depend on how well you roll. In Pizza
Box Football, you’ll earn every yard.
Unfold the game box and lay it flat on its back. 
Unfold the game board so that the platform stands
inside the game box.
Give each player a 
Play Sequence Card.
Find the Dice Symbols 
Card for reference. 
Choose a player to practice offense. The other player
will practice defense. 
Give and to the 
offense player.
Give and to the defense player.
IT’S TIME TO PRACTICE CALLING PLAYS.
Grab the Play Sequence Card. 
Together, follow steps 1-5 shown on the card.
When you’re ready to start playing a real game, choose
1 of the 4 Game Options to play from the Game Options
chart on the next page. 
Check out the rules for your Game Option. The Game
Options chart will point you to the correct page. Set up
the game pieces and lay out the game cards that you
will use.
See pages 8-9 for how to use the game board and the
game pieces.
Check out the Strategy Section below. 
You’re ready to play Pizza Box Football!

GAME OPTIONS
All instructions below are written for 2 players; however all versions may be played solitaire (without defense rolls). 
Object of 
the Game
Pre-set
Number of 
Rounds
Pre-set Limit
for Number 
of Plays
Pre-set
Yard Line(s)
Per Round
Kickoffs/
Punts
Turnovers
Affect Field
Position
Timeouts/
Clock
Management
5+ minutes
p. 4
p. 5
p. 6
p .7
Low
in 1 Red Zone
Shootout round.
1 per team; but
game continues if
score is tied
Opponent’s 25
Round Limits
1 & 4: 18 plays
2 & 5: 12 plays
3 & 6: 6 plays
1 & 4: Owns 25 
2 & 5: 50 yard line
3 & 6: Opponent’s 25
30 plays / quarter
6 per team (3 rounds
per half)
Play per the rules of
professional football
Play per the rules of
professional football
over 6 game rounds.
in a full 4-quarter
football game.
in a full 4-quarter
football game. Points
are scored per the
rules of football.
30–40 minutes
Medium
High
Very High
Red Zone 
Shootout
Backyard
Brawl
Professional
Smashmouth
Instructions
Page
Time To Play

Choose team colors and end zones. The player going first will place his marker on his
opponent’s 25-yard line and place the yellow marker on his opponent’s 15. Place a green
marker next to the 1 in the Downs area. Place each team’s score piece next to the zeros (0).
Each player rolls 1 die. The higher roller will start with the ball first. 
• Players will take turns starting with the ball on their opponent’s 25 yard-line. Each player
will run his offense until his team scores or loses the ball. You’re close enough to try a
field goal, but 3 points may not be enough to win…
• After both players have completed their turn, the round is over. If one team has scored
more points, then that team is the winner.
Playing Red Zone Shootout
The first player starts on offense from his opponent’s 25-yard line. Follow Play Sequence 1-6.
You will not use the Game Clock in Red Zone Shootout
• If at the end of the round the score is tied, then the players will begin another round.
The player who went second in the previous round will start the next round.
• Play continues until one team has scored more than the other at the end of a round.
RED ZONE SHOOTOUT
Score more points than your opponent in 1 Red Zone Shootout round. Points are scored
per the rules of football: (6) Touchdown; (3) Field Goal; (2) Safety, 2-Point Conversion; (1)
Low
5+ minutes

BACKYARD BRAWL
Score more points than your opponent over 6 game rounds. Points are scored per the rules
of football: (6) Touchdown; (3) Field Goal; (2) Safety, 2-Point Conversion; (1) Extra Point.
Medium
30-40 minutes
Choose team colors and end zones. The player going first will place his marker at his own
25-yard line and place the yellow marker on his own 35. He will also place a green 
marker in Quarter 1 and place his team’s marker in the Professional Time Cycle #1. Place
a green marker next to the 1 in the Downs area and a green marker in the Game Clock
next to the 18. Place each team’s score piece next to the zeros (0). 
Each player rolls 1 die. The lower roller will start with the ball first in all 6 game rounds.
• The game has 6 rounds (3 per half). Rounds 1 and 4 begin
from a team’s own 25-yard line. Rounds 2 and 5 begin from
the 50. Rounds 3 and 6 begin from the opponent’s 25. In each
round, players will take turns running their offense until they
either score or lose the ball. No punting!
• Each round has a time limit. Rounds 1 and 4 must be completed
in 18 plays. Rounds 2 and 5 must be completed in 12 plays.
Rounds 3 and 6 must be completed in 6 plays. After each
offense play, the Game Clock marker must move 1 play. Field
Goal attempts do not count as plays.
• Play is over after all 6 rounds have been completed as long as
one team has scored more points than the other. Also refer to
Tracking Rounds for Backyard Brawl (p.9)
Playing Backyard Brawl
The first player starts on offense from his own 25-yard line. Follow Play Sequence 1-6.
• If at the end of the game the score is tied, then the players will play a Red Zone Shootout
round (see p. 4). The last player to play in regulation will start the overtime round.
• Play continues until one team has scored more than the other at the end of a round.
Round
Starts on
Own 25
Own 50
Opp 25
Own 25
Own 50
Opp 25
Play Limit
Backyard Brawl Rounds
Half

SMASHMOUTH FULL GAME
Score more points than your opponent in a 4-quarter football game. Points are scored per
the rules of football: (6) Touchdown; (3) Field Goal; (2) Safety, 2-Point Conversion; (1)
High
Choose team colors and end zones. Place a green Time marker in the Game Clock next to
the number 30. Place a green Quarter marker in Quarter 1. Place each team’s score piece
next to the zeros (0). You will use another green marker for Downs during game play.
• The game is divided into 4 quarters / 2 halves, just like football. Play begins with a 
kickoff and kickoff return. Teams alternate possession per the rules of football. Normal
Punts, Short Punts and Onside Kicks are included. This is the real deal!
• Each offensive play (not including kicks) is tracked on the game clock. There are 30
offense plays per quarter, total. After the 2nd quarter ends, play stops.
• To begin the 3rd quarter, the player who received the ball in the first half will kickoff to
begin the second half.
• Play is over after the completion of the 30 plays in the 4th quarter as long as one team
has scored more points than the other.
Playing Smashmouth Full Game
The kicking player rolls the kickoff. The receiving player rolls the kickoff return. The 
receiving player begins on offense after the kick return. Follow Play Sequence Steps 1-6.
• If at the end of the game the score is tied, then the players will play a 30-play Overtime
Period. Players will roll to see who gets to receive the kickoff. The higher roller will
receive the kickoff.
• Play continues until one team scores and wins or the Overtime Period ends (which ends
the game in a tie). There is no second Overtime Period.
Each player rolls 1 die. The higher roller will receive the kickoff. The other player will
receive the kickoff in the second half.

PROFESSIONAL FULL GAME
Score more points than your opponent in a 4-quarter football game. Points are scored per
the rules of football: (6) Touchdown; (3) Field Goal; (2) Safety, 2-Point Conversion; (1)
Very High
Each player rolls 1 die. The higher roller will receive the kickoff. The other player will
receive the kickoff in the second half.
Choose team colors and end zones. Place a green Time marker in the Game Clock next
to the number 30. Place a green Quarter marker in Quarter 1. Place a green marker in
Professional Time Cycle #1. Place each team’s score piece next to the zeros (0). You will
use another green marker for downs during game play.
• The game is divided into 4 quarters / 2 halves, just like football. Play begins with a 
kickoff and kickoff return. Teams alternate possession per the rules of football. Normal
Punts, Short Punts and Onside Kicks are included. Your strategy will have to include how
best to manage the clock.
• Each offensive and special teams play is tracked on the game clock. There are 90 clock
units per quarter, total. Refer to the Professional Time Card for Professional Time Units.
Also refer to Tracking Time for Professional Full Game (p. 9).
• To begin the 3rd quarter, the player who received the ball in the first half will kickoff to
begin the second half.
• Play is over after the completion of the 90 units in the 4th quarter as long as one team
has scored more points than the other.
Playing Professional Full Game
The Kicking player rolls kickoff. The receiving player rolls kickoff return. The receiving 
player begins offense after the kick return. Follow Play Sequence Steps 1-6.
• If at the end of the game the score is tied, then the players will play a 90-unit Overtime
Period. Players will roll to see who gets to receive the kickoff. The higher roller will
receive the kickoff.
• Play continues until one team scores and wins or the Overtime Period ends (which ends
the game in a tie). There is no second Overtime Period.

GAME BOARD
Follow the chart below to learn how to use the game board and game pieces.
Tracking the Ball
on Offense
Tracking the First
Down Marker
Tracking the
Down Situation
• Each team (red and blue) has 2 markers for tracking yards on offense. We’ll
describe how the blue offense marks the ball.
• For example, let’s show a blue team play from the 20-yard line. Put a blue marker
on the 20, marking the beginning of the play. Let’s say you rolled your play and
gained 4 yards. You would use your 2nd blue marker to mark the gain, placing it
on the 24.
• Once you have marked your gain, you can remove your original spot. You’ll
need only the new mark for the next play.
• For a kickoff, punt or turnover, your opponent will place his marker where he
receives the ball. After rolling his return he will mark the ball again to begin his
turn on offense.
• Once your team gets the ball (and before your first play) place the yellow first
down marker 10 yards closer to your opponent’s end zone. For example, if your
first play is from the 20-yard line, place the yellow marker at your 30.
• You will earn a new first down if a play’s gain reaches or passes the first down
marker. When this happens, mark you gain and remove the yellow marker,
replacing it 10 yards ahead of the result of your last gain.
To keep track of the down situation use one of the green markers and the Downs
area of the Game Board.

Tracking Time
for Smashmouth
Tracking Time
for Professional
Tracking Rounds
for Backyard
Brawl
Tracking the 
Score
• Use the Game Clock to track time remaining. Each quarter begins with a marker
next to the 30 in the Game Clock. There are 30 offense plays in each quarter.
The marker moves one place after each run, short pass or long pass play.
• Kicks and returns will not count as plays. Also, an interception and interception
return would count as one play.
• After completing the last play of a quarter, move the quarter marker to the next
highest quarter and reset the Game Clock to 30.
• Use the Game Clock to track time remaining. Each quarter begins with a marker
next to the 30 in the Game Clock. There are 90 Professional Time Units in each
quarter, to be marked off in three (3) 30-unit Professional Time Cycles. The marker
moves according to the Professional Time Units described on the Professional
Time Card.
• Upon reaching the end of the Game Clock row, move the marker back to the 30
and continue marking any remaining time (unless the end of the Game Clock row
marks the end of a quarter, an automatic timeout).
• The two-minute warning occurs as an automatic timeout during the 2nd and 4th
quarters once the time marker reaches the 12 during Professional Time Cycle #3.
• Track timeouts for each team using the Home Timeouts and Visitor Timeouts sections.
Each team may use up to 3 timeouts per half (up to 2 timeouts in overtime period).
• Track each team’s score using the markers in the score area. Use a red marker for
the red team and a blue marker for the blue team.
• Touchdowns are scored (a) when a team crosses the opponent’s 1-yard line and
reaches the –0– or (b) when an automatic touchdown is awarded.
• Field Goals or Extra Points are scored when the kick result is good
• 2-point conversions are scored when the attempt gains 3 or more yards
• A safety is scored (a) when your opponent is tackled inside his own 1-yard line or
(b) when a blocked kick goes more than 9 yards into the end zone
• When a team scores, move that team’s marker to the right along the score path to
add the points scored to the team’s total.
• Use the quarter marker to track the half (1st or 2nd)
• To track rounds, start by placing the first player’s marker in Professional Time
Cycle #1. After the round, replace the first player’s marker with the second
player’s marker. After the second player’s possession, continue by placing the first
player’s marker next to #2, and so on.

SETTING UP LEAGUE PLAY
Do you want to create a league with your friends? You can use our ready-made season and playoff schedules for 
4, 6, or 8 teams. Substitute your own team names for the team numbers and start playing for the championship!
USING THE STAT SHEETS (OPTIONAL) 
Many players who enjoy playing in leagues also enjoy tracking their team’s stats while they play. Pizza Box
Football™has been statistically engineered to generate accurate statistics just like pro football. We have included 
an optional Stat Sheet tablet and a Stat Sheet Symbols Card for players like you. See the Stat Sheets and Stat Sheet
Symbols Card for instructions.
4-TEAM LEAGUE
6-TEAM LEAGUE
8-TEAM LEAGUE
Mini-League
North Division
South Division
North Division
South Division
9-Game Season Schedule
Week 1: 1 vs. 2 3 vs. 4
Week 2: 1 vs. 3 2 vs. 4
Week 3: 4 vs. 1 2 vs. 3
Week 4: 2 vs. 1 4 vs. 3
Week 5: 3 vs. 1 4 vs. 2
Week 6: 1 vs. 4 3 vs. 2
Week 7: 1 vs. 2 3 vs. 4
Week 8: 1 vs. 3 2 vs. 4
Week 9: 4 vs. 1 2 vs. 3
2nd Place vs. 1st Place
7-Game Season Schedule
Week 1: 1 vs. 2 3 vs. 4 5 vs. 6
Week 2: 1 vs. 3 2 vs. 5 6 vs. 4
Week 3: 6 vs. 1 2 vs. 3 4 vs. 5
Week 4: 5 vs. 1 3 vs. 6 4 vs. 2
Week 5: 3 vs. 1 5 vs. 4 2 vs. 6
Week 6: 1 vs. 4 3 vs. 2 6 vs. 5
Week 7: 2 vs. 1 5 vs. 3 4 vs. 6
Playoff Round 1*
Wild Card 1 vs. Division Winner 2
Wild Card 2 vs. Division Winner 1
Playoff 1 Winner vs. Playoff 2 Winner
* 2 Teams with the best records (who
do not win their division) earn Wild
10-Game Season Schedule
Week 1: 1 vs. 2 3 vs. 4 5 vs. 6 7 vs. 8
Week 2: 1 vs. 3 4 vs. 2 5 vs. 7 8 vs. 6
Week 3: 8 vs. 1 2 vs. 7 3 vs. 6 5 vs. 4
Week 4: 6 vs. 1 8 vs. 3 7 vs. 4 5 vs. 2 
Week 5: 4 vs. 1 8 vs. 5 2 vs. 3 6 vs. 7
Week 6: 3 vs. 1 6 vs. 8 2 vs. 4 7 vs. 5
Week 7: 1 vs. 7 2 vs. 8 3 vs. 5 4 vs. 6
Week 8: 1 vs. 5 4 vs. 8 7 vs. 3 6 vs. 2
Week 9: 1 vs. 4 5 vs. 8 3 vs. 2 7 vs. 6
Week 10: 2 vs. 1 8 vs. 7 4 vs. 3 6 vs. 5
Playoff Round 1*
Wild Card 1 vs. Division Winner 2
Wild Card 2 vs. Division Winner 1
Playoff 1 Winner vs. Playoff 2 Winner
* 2 Teams with the best records (who do not win
their division) earn Wild Card

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ( FAQs )
FAQ
RESPONSE
Can I fake punt?
No. Why don’t you just go for it?
What if I roll a gain
into the end zone on
a play with a fumble?
In Pizza Box Football™the offense cannot score a touchdown on a fumble. The
Fumble Location for gains that would have caused touchdowns is the 1-yard line.
What if I roll a loss
into the end zone on
a play with a fumble?
On a sack and fumble in the end zone, either team can recover the ball. If the
offense recovers the fumble (or the ball goes out of bounds) in its own end zone,
score a safety (2 points) for the defense. If the defense recovers the fumble, score a
touchdown (6 points) for the defense.
What if the defense
effect is on a gain
that is smaller than 
1-6?
All s still earn bonus yards. However, instead of getting a chance for 1-6 bonus
yards (or more), you will have a chance for 1-3 bonus yards (or more).
How do I apply
to a loss?
You’ve already done your damage. The offense loses yards as described on the
chart. There is no defense effect that makes yards lost even worse.
When is a Smashmouth
Full Game quarter over?
After the last run or pass play of the quarter, the team that has possession will still have
time for a final kick before the end of the quarter. The team is not required to kick.
Where are the 
penalties?
We took penalties out of this version of the game. Most people don’t miss them.
Thanks for noticing.
Why can’t the offense
advance a fumble?
Yards gained on a play always factor in all yards gained by the offense.
How do I stop the
clock by getting out of
bounds?
Can the offense 
fumble more than
once on a run play?
We do not include that feature in this version of the game. FYI, during most of a
professional football game (53 minutes), the clock does not stop when a player
goes out of bounds. 
No. Once a Run fumble occurs, you re-roll your Run play to determine the runner’s
gain or loss prior to the fumble. If the re-rolled Run play is a fumble instead of a
gain or loss: (1) re-roll your Run play to determine the gain or loss (2) give the
defender an additional try for a recovery on the recovery roll.
B
B !

www.PizzaBoxFootball.com
We’re always working on something new for you at www.PizzaBoxFootball.com. We strongly encourage you to check
it out! We offer free downloads, sell the Advanced Game and give you free tools for your leagues.
Get Free Downloads
We created Pizza Box Football™with many more features than could be fit into this one game. On top of that, we 
keep adding more. All you have to do is register and download free stuff!
Buy the Advanced Game
Are you ready for more football? Pizza Box Football has an Advanced Game version available for sale at www.PizzaBoxFootball.com!
The Advanced Game includes additional plays and is updated every year! Included you will receive: 
• Added offense plays (draw play, screen pass and play-action) 
• Added defense plays (run blitz, route jump and QB blitz) 
• A special bomb play and goal-line defense 
• 32 teams with different strengths
The Advanced Game requires the Pizza Box Football game. You may also order the Advanced Game by writing to:
On The Line Game Company 
P.O. Box 14213 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
Try Free League Tools
Many PBF players create leagues with their friends. At www.PizzaBoxFootball.com, we offer free tools to help leagues
and their players track their schedules and results.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We at On The Line Game Company are most grateful to our wives, Lisa and Evonnie, who have supported us throughout
this project. We would also like to thank our designer Shelby Caffrey of 22 Graphics for her great work. Special 
thanks also go to David Borgenicht, Eric Brodwin, Fred Chung, the Corbett family, Matt Ettinger, Jimmy Fordham,
Bingka Leung, Jeff Rezer, Michael Roufa, the SBFL Kosovo League, John Smith, Anne Thomas, Don Tomasello, Carl
Tymann and Lisa Yom. We would also like to thank our parents. Now you can see what we were up to all those years!
Pizza Box Football is a trademark of On The Line Game Company. Pizza Box Football packaging and content are copyrighted and owned by On The Line Game Company.
© 2005 On The Line Game Company