Component List
O 1 Game Board
O 90 Plastic Pieces, including:
» 35 Bronze Tanks
» 14 Silver Quartz Converters
» 14 Gold Ore Converters
» 14 Gray Energy Converters
» 13 Bronze Superchargers
O 350 Cardboard Pieces, including:
» 85 Claim Markers (14 black, 14 green, 14 
orange, 14 purple, 14 yellow, 15 gray)
» 30 Quartz Tokens (5x “5,” 25x “1”)
» 30 Ore Tokens (5x “5,” 25x “1”)
» 30 Water Tokens (5x “5,” 25x “1”)
» 30 Energy Tokens (5x “5,” 25x “1”)
» 130 Credit Tokens (20x “1,” 20x “5,” 20x “10,” 
20x “20,” 25x “50,” 25x “100” )
» 8 Resource Supply and Price Indicators
» 1 Tank Supply Marker 
» 1 Support Airship Marker and Plastic Stand
» 1 Round Marker
» 4 Order Markers
O 67 Bridge-Sized Cards, including:
» 10 Specialist Cards
» 40 Carrier Cards (8 black, 8 green, 8 orange, 8 
purple, 8 yellow)
» 14 Certificate Cards (7 Building Licenses, 7 
Luxury Quarters)
» 3 Optional Cards
O 5 Reference Sheets
O 1 Six-Sided Die
O This Rulebook
Introduction
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Colonies! Well, a Colony. 
Maybe we’ll name this one after you. I bet you’d like a boomtown 
with your name on it.
We are booming sure enough, with entrepreneurs of all sorts 
risking the trip across the Boiling Sea to get in at the beginning. 
We got water—plenty of it! We got quartz and a mess of valuable 
ores. No cavorite, so the gas-bag airship is the order of the day 
here. You’re standing on hot rocks all over, so plenty of local 
energy. Stake your claims, set up your tanks, and watch the 
credits roll in! What could be easier?
Everyone have their warrants of investment? Good! What the 
Colonies need more than anything else right now is bright 
men and women who know an opportunity when they see 
one. Captains of industry. Capitalists with the vision to turn a 
boomtown into a thriving city, to make their Colony more than 
just a dot on a map. You do this right, you’ll be the toast of the 
capital, not that you’ll ever want to go back there…
Overview
Planet Steam is a game of extracting resources and 
accumulating wealth for 2–5 players. Each player 
assumes the role of an entrepreneur trying to reap 
the most profit from resource mining in a town on the 
planet Steam. Players extract resources from their zones 
using tanks and converters, and they buy and sell those 
resources in a volatile market.
Object of the Game
The player with the most wealth at the end of the game is 
the winner.

The tank supply marker is a marker players 
use on the game board to track the number and 
price of tanks available in the local tank market.
The support airship marker and plastic 
stand indicate which row of tanks on 
the map players use to extract additional 
The round marker is a marker players use on 
the game board to track the current game round.
Order markers are 
markers players use in the 
advanced rules to indicate the 
order in which resources are 
bought and sold during the 
Specialist cards represent 
specialists from whom players 
receive benefits. These cards are 
also used to determine player 
turn order.
Carrier cards represent cargo 
ships players can use to store 
There are two types of 
Certificate cards: building 
licenses and luxury quarters. 
Players can use building licenses 
to claim zones. Luxury quarters 
have a credit value at the end of 
Optional cards can be used with 
both the standard and advanced 
rules to provide players with 
additional abilities and an 
alternative carrier to use during 
Reference sheets list the 
turn sequence and the costs 
to purchase the various items 
for sale in the game.
The six-sided die is used when players 
attempt to claim zones.
Component Overview
This section describes the Planet Steam components in 
detail.
The game board consists 
of the resource terminal, 
where resource prices and 
supplies are tracked, and 
the map, where players 
place claim markers and use 
tanks to extract resources.
Tanks are plastic pieces players 
place on their zones to extract 
Converters are plastic pieces 
players can attach to their tanks to 
change the type of resources a tank 
can extract.
Superchargers are plastic pieces players can 
attach to their tanks to increase the amount 
of a resource a tank can extract.
Claim markers are cardboard pieces players 
use to claim zones.
Resource tokens track how 
many resources a player 
has. There are four types of 
resources: quartz, ore, water, 
and energy. Resource tokens 
are available in denominations 
of 1 and 5.
Credit tokens represent 
currency players use to buy and 
sell items. They are available in 
denominations of 1, 5, 10, 20, 
50, and 100.
Resource price and supply indicators 
(gold and bronze, respectively) are 
markers players use to track the price 
and supply of resources available at 
the resource terminal.

7 .	 Prepare Resource Gauges: Place one price 
indicator on the red number on each of the four 
price tracks in the resource terminal (see “Resource 
Terminal Anatomy” on page 17). Place one 
supply indicator on the appropriate number on each 
of the four supply tracks in the resource terminal 
according to “Table 1” on page 24.
8 .	 Take Claim Markers: Each player selects a player 
color and places the claim markers of that color in 
his play area.
9 .	 Take Starting Carrier Cards: Each player takes 
the eight carrier cards that contain a player icon of 
his player color and places the class 1/class 2 carrier 
card for each resource type in his play area with the 
class 1 carrier side faceup. Players set aside their 
class 3/class 4 carrier cards to use later in the game.
10 .	 Take Starting Resources: Each player takes the 
appropriate starting resources according to “Table 
2” on page 24 and places them on his corresponding 
carriers (see “Carrier Cards” on page 8).
11 .	 Take Starting Credits: Each player takes the 
starting credits appropriate for the number of 
players (see “Table 2” on page 24) and places them 
in his play area. Place all remaining credits in a 
reserve pile near the game board.
12 .	Take Reference Sheets: Each player takes one 
reference sheet.
13 .	Set Up Starting Claim Markers: Complete the 
starting claim marker setup on the map as shown 
in the diagrams on page 24. There is a different 
starting setup depending on the number of players. 
Place the claim markers of the appropriate player 
colors and the neutral claim markers on the 
indicated zones.
When playing with only two or three players, several 
zones on the map are unavailable during the game. 
To indicate this, place a claim marker of an unused 
player color facedown on each of the unavailable 
zones (see “Setup for Different Numbers of Players” 
on page 24).
Return any remaining claim markers from unused 
player colors to the box.
14 .	Determine First Player: Each player rolls the die. 
The player who rolls the highest result is the first 
player for the beginning of the game. If there is a 
tie for the highest result, the tied players reroll until 
they break the tie.
15 .	Upgrade Carrier Card: Starting with the first 
player and proceeding clockwise, each player 
immediately upgrades one of his four carriers to 
class 2 by flipping the carrier card over so that 
its class 2 side is faceup. (When playing the game 
for the first time, each player should upgrade his 
water carrier.)
Setup
1 .	 Place Game Board: Place the game board in the 
center of the play area.
2 .	 Place Support Airship and Die: Place the support 
airship and the die near the game board.
3 .	 Prepare Reserve: Sort the tanks, converters, and 
superchargers; place them in separate piles near 
the game board.
Sort the quartz, ore, water, and energy tokens by 
type; place them in separate piles near the game 
board.
Sort the building licenses and luxury quarter 
certificate cards according to “Table 1” on page 24; 
place them in separate stacks near the game board. 
Return the remaining certificate cards to the game 
box; they are not used this game.
4 .	 Prepare Specialist Cards: Compile a set of 
specialist cards that correspond to the number of 
players and place them faceup in numerical order 
near the game board; this is the specialist card area. 
Each card has one or more set indicators players 
use to compile a set of specialist cards. Each set 
indicator corresponds to a specific number of 
players, as follows:
O 2 players: card set 2 (2 specialist cards)
O 3 players: card set 3 (3 specialist cards)
O 4 players: card set 4 (4 specialist cards)
O 5 players: card set 5 (5 specialist cards)
Return the remaining specialist cards to the game 
box; they are not used this game.
Note: Several specialist cards contain multiple 
set indicators; they are used in multiple sets. For 
example, a card with a 2 and a 3 set indicator is 
used in both a two-player and a three-player game.
5 .	 Prepare Local Tank Market Track: Place the 
tank supply marker on the local tank market track 
space with the 2 indicator for a two-player game, 
the space with a 3 indicator for a three-player 
game, the space with a 4 indicator for a four-
player game, or the space with a 5 indicator for a 
five-player game.
6 .	 Place Round Marker: Place the round marker on 
the Round Track space with a 5 indicator for a 
five-player game, the space with a 4 indicator for 
a four-player game, the space with a 3 indicator 
for a three-player game, and the space with a 2 
indicator for a two-player game.

Game Setup (Three Players)
1 .	
Game Board
2 .	 Local Tank Supply Marker
3 .	 Round Marker
4 .	 Die
5 .	 Tank Reserve
6 .	 Energy Converter Reserve
7 .	 Ore Converter Reserve
8 .	 Quartz Converter Reserve
9 .	 Supercharger Reserve
10 .	 Credit Reserve
11 .	 Support Airship
12 .	 Building License Reserve
13 .	 Luxury Quarters Reserve
14 .	 Specialist Cards (3 set)
15 .	 Price Indicator
16 .	 Supply Indicator
17 .	 Starting Carrier Cards
18 .	 Upgraded Starting Carrier 
Card
19 .	 Class 3/4 Carrier Cards
20 .	Starting Resources
21 .	 Quartz Reserve
22 .	Ore Reserve
23 .	Water Reserve
24 .	Energy Reserve
25 .	Starting Credits
26 .	Player Claim Markers
27 .	Reference Sheet
28 .	Unavailable Zones
29 .	Player Claim Markers 
(on board)
30 .	Neutral Claim Markers 
(on board)

Game Board Anatomy
1 .	 Local Tank Market 
Track
2 .	Round Track
3 .	Bonus Resource 
Box
4 .	Resource Terminal
5 .	Map
6 .	Zone
7 .	Mooring Point
8 .	River Zone
Attaching Converters and Superchargers
Players attach and detach converters and 
superchargers during the Tank Phase of the game.

Winning the Game
After the round marker advances to the final space of the 
round track—the space that contains a gold player icon—
players calculate their final wealth to determine a 
winner. Players calculate their final wealth by adding 
the credit value of their assets to the value of their credit 
tokens. Assets have the following credit values:
O Each resource has a credit value equal to that 
resource’s current price listed on the resource 
terminal.
O 25 credits for each claimed zone
O 25 credits for each tank
O 50 credits for each supercharger
O 50 credits for each luxury quarters certificate
Building licenses, carriers, and converters have no 
credit value.
The player with the highest final wealth is the winner. 
If players tie for the highest final wealth, all tied players 
share a victory.
Example: At the end of the game, Kay has claim markers in 
10 zones (worth 250 credits total), six tanks (worth 150 credits 
total), one supercharger (worth 50 credits total), and one luxury 
quarters card (worth 50 credits total). She has three water valued 
at eight credits each (worth 24 credits total) and two energy 
valued at three credits each (worth six credits total). She also has 
20 credits worth of credit tokens. The total value of her assets and 
credit tokens is 550 credits.
Playing the Game
Planet Steam is played over a series of rounds. Each round 
consists of four phases performed in sequence. After the 
last phase of a round ends, the next round begins. The 
game continues in this manner until players advance the 
round marker to the final space on the round track (see 
“Winning the Game” in the next column).
Phases
During each game round, players resolve the following 
phases in order. The detailed rules for each phase are 
listed starting on page 10.
1 .	 Expansion Phase: During the Expansion Phase, 
players place bonus resources, acquire specialist 
cards through an auction, place claim markers, and 
place the support airship.
2 .	 Tank Phase: During the Tank Phase, players 
buy and reorganize tanks, converters, and 
superchargers. They also buy carrier upgrades.
3 .	 Resource Phase: During the Resource Phase, 
players extract resources and buy and sell 
resources at the resource terminal.
4 .	 End Phase: During the End Phase, players 
replenish the local tank supply, advance the round 
marker, and prepare the game board and specialist 
cards for the next game round.
Component Limitations
Resources and credits are not limited by the 
number of tokens in the game, and players may 
freely make change. If players need additional 
resources or credits, they can use any readily 
available token or coin.
All plastic pieces (tanks, converters, and 
superchargers) and all other tokens are limited 
by the number of components that are included 
with the game.
Turn Order
Players perform some phases and steps in 
turn order. To do so, the player possessing the 
specialist card with a turn order indicator of “1” 
(i.e., Lady Steam) resolves his turn first. Then, 
the player with the specialist card with the next 
lowest turn order indicator (i.e., “2”) resolves 
his turn and so on until each player has resolved 
his turn. 

Card Overview
This section describes the rules for carrier and specialist 
cards.
Carrier Cards
There is a set of eight carrier cards for each player color. 
The player icon printed on the lower right corner of each 
carrier card indicates the player color for each set.
Each carrier card has a resource symbol followed by a 
number printed in the upper left corner. The resource 
symbol indicates which resource type a player can place 
on a carrier card. A player cannot place resources on 
a carrier card that do not match that card’s resource 
symbol.
Zone and Tank Overview
This section describes the rules for zones and tanks.
Zone
The map portion of the game board is divided into 
zones. Zones are either claimed or unclaimed. 
A claimed zone contains a player’s claim marker or a 
neutral claim marker. An unclaimed zone contains no 
claim markers. Some zones are outlined in blue; these 
are river zones. Players can use river zones to extract 
water without spending energy (see “Resource Phase” on 
page 14).
When playing a 2- or 3-player game, some zones contain 
facedown claim markers. Players cannot use zones 
marked in this manner. As such, these zones are not 
claimed or unclaimed. 
Tank
Players use tanks to extract resources. Players 
can place tanks on their claimed zones, and each zone 
can contain only one tank. There are two types of tanks 
in Planet Steam: standard tanks and advanced 
tanks. A standard tank is a tank without an attached 
converter. Standard tanks can only extract water. An 
advanced tank is a tank with an attached converter, which 
allows the tank to extract quartz, ore, or energy instead of 
water. Having a supercharger does not affect whether or 
not a tank is a standard or advanced tank. Each converter 
allows a tank to extract a different resource, as follows:
O A quartz converter (silver) 
allows a tank to extract 
quartz.
O An ore converter (gold) 
allows a tank to extract ore.
O An energy converter (gray) 
allows a tank to extract 
energy.
Each tank can have one attached converter and one 
attached supercharger at a time (see “Attaching 
Converters and Superchargers” on page 6). 
1 .	 Resource Symbol: This indicates what type of 
resource a player can place on a carrier card.
2 .	Load Capacity: This number indicates the 
number of resources a player can place on a 
carrier card.
3 .	Class Indicator: This number indicates the 
carrier’s class; higher classes have an increased 
load capacity.
4 .	Player Color: This icon indicates which set of 
carrier cards belongs to which player.
Carrier Card Anatomy

Airship Captain 
The player who possesses the Airship Captain specialist 
card places the support airship on a mooring point during 
the Expansion Phase (see “Place the Support Airship” on 
page 12).
Engineer
The player who possesses the Engineer specialist card 
may immediately take one building license or 15 credits 
from the reserve.
Bank Agent
The player who possesses the Bank Agent specialist card 
may immediately upgrade one of his carriers to the next 
class or take one resource of his choice from the reserve 
(this does not affect the supply track in the resource 
terminal) and place it on his appropriate carrier card.
The number next to the resource symbol is that carrier’s 
load capacity and indicates how many resources a 
player can place on a card. If a player exceeds the load 
capacity of a carrier, then he must return his excess 
resources of that type to the reserve.
The number in the upper right corner of a carrier card 
indicates that carrier’s class. Each player begins the 
game with four class 1/class 2 carrier cards in his play 
area—one for each resource. Each player can never have 
more than four carrier cards in his play area, but he can 
upgrade a carrier card to a higher class to increase its load 
capacity (see “Buy Carrier Upgrades” on page 13). A 
player can upgrade each carrier card up to three times.
Each carrier card has two sides, and each side represents 
a different class of the same carrier. Class 1 and class 2 
carriers are on the opposite sides of the same carrier 
cards, and class 3 and class 4 carriers are on the opposite 
sides of the same carrier cards.
Specialist Cards
During the Expansion Phase, each player acquires one 
specialist card. It serves two purposes: to determine 
player turn order and to provide a benefit to the player 
who possesses the specialist card. Each specialist card 
depicts at least one specialist and lists his title. Each 
specialist card has a number printed in the upper right 
corner. That number dictates the player turn order 
for each game round. The player in possession of the 
specialist card with the lowest number is first in the 
turn order, followed by the player in possession of the 
specialist card with the second lowest number, and so on. 
The player resolving his turn is the current player.
In a two- or three-player game, players use some 
specialist cards that depict two specialists per card. If 
a player possesses one of these cards, he can use both 
benefits during the round. 
The following section describes the benefits provided by 
each specialist: 
Lady Steam
The player who possesses the Lady Steam specialist card 
is the first player and plays first during each game phase.
Venturer
The player who possesses the Venturer specialist 
card chooses an unclaimed zone to auction during the 
Expansion Phase (see “Auction a Zone” on page 11). 
If the player with the Venturer wins the bidding round 
for that auction, he only pays half his bid, rounded up, 
to the reserve. 
1 .	 Turn Order Indicator: This number dictates 
the player turn order for each game round 
except the first.
2 .	Specialist Title: This is the title of the specialist 
depicted on the card. Some specialist cards 
depict two specialists, each with his own title. 
3 .	Benefit: This text describes the player benefit 
the specialist provides. Some specialist cards 
depict two specialists, each providing a benefit.
4 .	Set Indicator: This icon indicates which 
specialist cards players use; each set is based 
on the number players in the game.
Specialist Card Anatomy

To begin a bidding round, the first player bids credits for 
the opportunity to choose a specialist card. He must bid 
at least one credit; he cannot pass. Then, the player to his 
left bids or passes. Each bid must exceed any previous bids 
that bidding round, and a player cannot bid more than he 
can afford to pay in credits. Bidding continues clockwise 
until each player except the highest bidder passes. After a 
player passes, he cannot bid again that bidding round. 
The player with the highest bid wins the bidding round, 
pays credits to the reserve equal to his bid, and chooses 
an available specialist card to place in his play area. 
The specialist card remains in his possession for the rest 
of the game round. If a player chooses the Engineer 
or Bank Agent specialist card, he resolves the benefit 
of that specialist card immediately. If a player chooses 
Lady Steam, he does not become first player for the 
current auction.
After a player wins a bidding round, he cannot participate 
in the specialist card auction for the remainder of the game 
round, and all remaining players begin a new bidding 
round. The first player begins each bidding round until he 
is the highest bidder and receives a specialist card. After 
the first player wins a bidding round, the next player 
clockwise from him begins each subsequent bidding 
round until he is the highest bidder. Players continue in 
this manner until each player wins a bidding round and 
receives a specialist card. 
Note: Players may conceal or reveal the amount of credits 
they possess as they wish. Players cannot examine other 
players’ credits.
Taking a Bonus Resource
After a player wins a bidding round and acquires a 
specialist card, he immediately takes one resource, 
if able, from the bonus resource box. After a player 
takes a resource from the bonus resource box, the player 
places that resource on the appropriate carrier card in his 
play area if its load capacity allows (see “Carrier Cards” 
on page 8). If that carrier card cannot hold any 
additional resources, the player must return that resource 
to the reserve and adjust the supply for that resource by 
moving the supply indicator up one space on the supply 
track. This situation is the only instance when a player’s 
not having sufficient capacity to hold a resource causes 
the resource’s supply to increase. If there are any bonus 
resources on the game board after the Auction Specialist 
Cards step, players return them to the reserve and adjust 
their supplies by moving their supply indicators up one 
space on their supply tracks.
Note: A player who takes the Bank Agent specialist card 
can upgrade his carrier before taking a bonus resource 
from the auction.
The Game Round
This section describes the game round in detail.
Expansion Phase
To resolve the Expansion Phase, players follow these steps:
1 .	 Place Bonus Resources
2 .	 Auction Specialist Cards
3 .	 Auction a Zone
4 .	 Claim a Zone
5 .	 Place the Support Airship
Place Bonus Resources
During this step, the players check the supply track for 
each resource in the resource terminal and, if able, place 
resources in the bonus resource box (see “Resource 
Terminal Anatomy” on page 17). If a resource’s supply 
is “1” or greater, players place one of that resource in 
the bonus resource box and adjust the resource’s supply 
by moving the supply indicator down one space on the 
supply track.
Example: The quartz supply is at “2.” The players place one 
quartz in the bonus resource box and reduce the supply to “1.” 
The ore supply is at “0.” The players do not place any ore in 
the bonus resource box. The players continue this process with 
water and energy.
Auction Specialist Cards
During this step, players participate in an auction to 
acquire specialist cards. Each player must purchase one 
specialist card during the auction. Before the auction 
begins, each player with zero credits receives two credits 
from the reserve.
Auctioning a Specialist Card
The first player begins the auction’s initial bidding round. 
For the first game round’s specialist card auction, the 
player randomly determined during setup to be the 
first player is the first player. During the specialist card 
auction in subsequent rounds, the first player is the 
player who possessed the Lady Steam specialist card the 
previous round. Bidding proceeds clockwise starting with 
the first player, not in turn order.

Claim a Zone
During this step, players may place claim markers on 
unclaimed zones. Each player, in turn order, can place a 
claim marker by resolving one of the following two actions:
O Roll a Die
O Use a Building License
Roll a Die
The current player chooses an unclaimed zone on the map 
where he wants to place one of his claim markers. Then, he 
rolls the die. If the die result is a “4,” “5,” or “6,” he places one 
of his claim markers from his play area on the zone he chose. 
Specialist Card Auction Example
First Bidding Round: All four Specialist cards are available at the 
start of the game. Martin is the first player and opens the bidding 
with a bid of 20 credits. Jen, seated clockwise from him, bids 22 
credits. Kay, the third player, as well as Eric, the fourth player, both 
pass. It’s Martin’s turn again, and he raises his bid to 23 credits. 
Jen does not want to go any higher and passes. Because Kay and 
Eric have already passed and cannot bid again during this bidding 
round, Martin’s bid is the highest. He wins the bidding round 
and pays 23 credits to the reserve. He examines the four available 
specialist cards and chooses the Venturer (card number 2). He 
places the card in his play area and then chooses quartz as his 
bonus resource, placing it on his quartz carrier card.
Second Bidding Round: Jen starts the bidding for the next 
auction because she is clockwise from Martin and Martin has 
won a bidding round. There are three specialist cards left for the 
winner to choose from. Eric wins this bidding round with a high 
bid of 15 credits, and he chooses Lady Steam (card number 1) 
and chooses ore as his bonus resource.
Third Bidding Round: Now, Jen and Kay bid for the right to 
take one of the last two specialist cards and bonus resources. Jen 
cannot pass and must open the bidding with an opening bid of at 
least one credit. Jen bids one credit and Kay passes. Jen pays the 
one credit and takes the Engineer (card number 4). She takes a 
building license (the benefit of the Engineer) along with water as 
her bonus resource.
Fourth Bidding Round: Kay takes the Airship Captain (card 
number 3) for a minimum payment of one credit. Kay takes 
the last bonus resource, energy, but because her carrier card 
for energy is already at its load capacity she must return that 
resource to the reserve and adjust the supply for that resource by 
moving its supply indicator up one space on the supply track.
Auction a Zone
During this step, the player possessing the Venturer 
specialist card chooses an unclaimed zone on the map to 
be auctioned. Players resolve the auction using the same 
rules as the specialist card auction, except that the player 
who now has the Lady Steam specialist card is the new 
first player. The player who has the Lady Steam specialist 
card is the new first player for this round and begins the 
auction by placing an initial bid. Then, bidding continues 
clockwise. The player with the highest bid pays a number 
of credits equal to his bid to the reserve and claims the 
auctioned zone by placing one of his claim markers on 
it. If the player with the Venturer specialist card wins 
the bidding round for the auction, he only pays half the 
number of credits equal to his bid (rounded up). He may 
bid more than the number of credits he possesses as long as 
he can afford the actual amount he is required to pay.
If there are no more unclaimed zones prior to the auction, 
the player with the Venturer specialist card chooses a 
zone with a neutral claim marker to auction. The highest 
bidder claims the neutral zone and replaces the neutral 
claim marker with one of his own.
Claiming a Zone by Rolling a Die 
The orange player wants to place a claim marker 
on zone A. Unfortunately, he rolls a “1” result. 
Now, he must choose one of the available 
unclaimed zones: B, C, or D.
A
B
C
D

Pay Activation Cost
During this step, the current player may spend one 
water as an activation cost. If he chooses to pay the 
activation cost, he may proceed to the next step of this 
phase. The current player completes both steps of this 
phase before the next player in turn order begins his turn. 
If the current player does not pay the activation cost, 
he takes one water from the reserve and his turn ends 
immediately. 
Buy and Reorganize
If the current player has paid the activation cost in step 
one of this phase, he may perform any number of the 
following actions repeatedly and in any order:
O Buy a Tank from the Local Tank Market
O Import a Tank
O Buy a Converter
O Buy a Supercharger
O Buy a Carrier Upgrade
O Rearrange Tanks, Converters, and Superchargers
If the die result is a “1,” “2,” or “3,” he places one of his claim 
markers from his play area on the closest unclaimed zone 
from his chosen zone in any orthogonal direction (horizontal 
or vertical) of his choice. If there are no unclaimed zones in 
any of those directions, the player gains 15 credits instead of 
placing a claim marker.
After a player rolls a die, he is committed to placing a 
claim marker on a zone using that method; he cannot 
choose to use a building license that game round. If there 
are no unclaimed zones on the game board, a player 
cannot roll a die to place a claim marker on a zone. 
Use a Building License
The current player can use a building license to claim a 
zone in one of the following two ways:
O He can place one of his claim markers on an 
unclaimed zone of his choice without rolling a die.
O He can replace a neutral claim marker with one of 
his own claim markers.
After a player uses a building license, he must return it 
to the game box. A player can possess as many building 
licenses as he can acquire, but he can only use one 
building license per turn. A player does not need to have 
the Engineer to use a building license.
Note: River zones are treated just like other zones with 
respect to auctioning them and claiming them.
Place the Support Airship
The player who has the Airship Captain specialist card 
places the support airship on one of the seven mooring 
points along the right side of the map. The support airship 
provides an extraction bonus to each tank in the same 
row as the mooring point on which the support airship is 
currently located (see “Support Airship” on page 16).
Tank Phase
During this phase, players buy tanks, converters, carrier 
upgrades, and superchargers by spending credits and 
resources. To spend credits or resources, players take 
the spent tokens from their play area and place them in 
the reserve. Players do not adjust a resource’s supply in 
the resource terminal when spending resources.
Players resolve the Tank Phase in turn order as dictated 
by the specialist cards. The player with the lowest 
numbered specialist card resolves both steps of this phase, 
followed by the player with the second lowest number, etc. 
To resolve the phase, each player follows these two steps:
1 .	 Pay Activation Cost
2 .	 Buy and Reorganize
Placing the Support Airship 
The orange player possesses the Airship Captain 
specialist card and places the support airship on 
the mooring point shown at the right. During the 
Resource Phase, each tank in this row can extract a 
bonus resource, including the green player’s tank.

Buy a Carrier Upgrade
The current player may upgrade one of his carriers from 
one class to the next higher class by spending one ore and 
one energy. Each class upgrade increases the carrier’s 
load capacity. 
To upgrade a carrier from class 1 to 2 or from 3 to 4, the 
player flips the carrier card to the class 2 or class 4 side 
as appropriate. To upgrade from class 2 to 3, the player 
returns his class 1/class 2 carrier card to the game box 
and replaces it with his class 3/class 4 carrier card, which 
he set aside during setup (see “Setup” on page 4).
Rearrange Tanks, Converters, and 
Superchargers
The current player may freely rearrange any of his tanks, 
converters, or superchargers. A player can swap the 
positions of his tanks or move them to his claimed zones 
that do not have tanks. The current player may also freely 
move converters and superchargers among his tanks. The 
player may optionally remove converters from his tanks 
at this time, returning them to the reserve.
Buy a Tank from the Local Tank Market 
The current player may buy a tank from the local tank 
market. To buy a tank, the player spends one water plus 
the number of credits indicated by the credit cost that 
corresponds to the space occupied by the tank supply 
marker. After spending the water and credits, the player 
takes one tank from the tank reserve and places it on 
one of his claimed zones that does not already contain a 
tank. If a player does not have any claimed zones without 
a tank, he cannot buy a tank during this phase. 
After buying a tank, the player moves the tank supply 
marker one space toward the out of stock space. If a 
player buys the last available tank from the local tank 
market, place the tank supply marker on the out of stock 
space of the local tank market track.
Import a Tank
The current player may import a tank. To import a tank, 
the player spends one water, two quartz, and five credits. 
After spending these resources and credits, the player 
takes one tank from the tank reserve and places it on 
one of his claimed zones that does not already contain a 
tank. If a player does not have any claimed zones without 
a tank, he cannot import a tank during this phase. The 
player does not adjust the tank supply marker on the 
local tank market track when importing a tank, and he 
may import a tank even if the local tank supply marker 
is on the out of stock space.
Buy a Converter 
The current player may buy a converter for one of his 
tanks. After buying a converter, the current player takes 
it from the reserve and attaches it to one of his tanks. The 
player can buy a new converter to replace an existing 
one, and the existing converter must either be moved to 
a different tank or returned to the reserve. No tank can 
ever have more than one converter at a time. The number 
of credits a player must spend for each converter is as 
follows:
O Quartz Converter: 8 credits
O Ore Converter: 5 credits
O Energy Converter: 2 credits.
Buy a Supercharger 
The current player may buy a supercharger for one of 
his tanks. A supercharger increases a tank’s extraction 
capability by one. To buy a supercharger, the player 
spends one water, one ore, and two quartz. After spending 
these resources, the player takes one supercharger from 
the reserve and attaches it to one of his tanks. Each tank 
can only have one supercharger.
Local Tank Market Track Anatomy
1 .	Tank Credit Cost
2 .	 Tank Supply Space
3 .	 Tank Supply Marker
4 .	Out of Stock Space

Resource Phase
During the Resource Phase, players extract resources, 
buy and sell resources at the resource terminal, and buy 
and sell certificates.
To resolve the Resource Phase, players follows these steps:
1 .	 Extract Resources
2 .	 Buy/Sell Resources
3 .	 Buy/Sell Certificates
Players resolve each step completely before proceeding 
to the next step. That is, all players resolve the Extract 
Resources step before resolving the Buy/Sell Resource step.
Extract Resources
During this step, the current player may use his 
tanks to extract resources. Tanks can extract 
resources through basic extraction and bonus 
extraction. When performing this step, the current 
player acquires all resources through basic extraction 
before acquiring resources through bonus extraction. 
Tank Phase Diagram
1 .	 The green player pays her one water activation 
cost so that she can perform actions during her 
Buy and Reorganize step.
2 .	She buys one tank from the local tank market, 
spending one water and 20 credits.
3 .	She places the tank on one of her claimed zones.
4 .	She moves the local tank supply marker one space 
toward the out of stock space.
5 .	She buys an energy converter, spending two 
credits, and attaches it to one of her tanks.
6 .	She moves a tank with a quartz attachment from 
one of her claimed zones to another one of her 
claimed zones.
7 .	She upgrades her energy carrier from class 1 to 
class 2, spending one ore and one energy.
8 .	She flips her energy carrier to its class 2 side.

Basic Extraction
The current player must choose which tanks he is going 
to use to extract resources and then spend one energy for 
each tank chosen with the following two exceptions: 
O Standard tanks placed on a river zone.
O Advanced tanks with an energy upgrade.
The current player can extract resources from both of 
the previous exceptions without spending energy. After 
spending the appropriate amount of energy, the current 
player acquires all extracted resources by taking them from 
the reserve and placing them on his corresponding carriers 
(see below). If any of the player’s carriers are full, he 
returns the excess resources he extracted to the reserve.
Because the current player extracts resources after he 
spends energy, he cannot spend energy tokens during the 
same Resource Phase in which he extracted those tokens.
The basic extraction for each tank is as follows:
O A tank without a converter extracts one water.
O A tank with an energy converter extracts one energy.
O A tank with an ore converter extracts one ore.
O A tank with a quartz converter extracts one quartz.
Bonus Extraction
After the current player acquires all resources through basic 
extraction, he can acquire additional resources through any 
of the following applicable methods of bonus extraction:
O Synergy Effect 
O Supercharger
O Support Airship
Each resource a tank extracts through bonus extraction 
must be of the same resource type it extracted through 
basic extraction this phase. Tanks that did not extract 
a resource this phase cannot extract any additional 
resources from bonus extraction.
Synergy Effect
If the current player has tanks that are orthogonally 
grouped (vertical or horizontal) and that extracted the 
same resource through basic extraction, they collectively 
extract additional resources. The number of additional 
resources a series of grouped tanks can extract is one 
fewer than the number of grouped tanks. For example, 
two grouped tanks extracting the same resource 
extract one additional resource, three tanks extract two 
additional resources, etc. The synergy effects do not apply 
to tanks owned by different players. A player can have 
more than one grouping of tanks that extract additional 
resources through the synergy effect.
The green player has one standard tank and two 
advanced tanks with ore converters.
1 .	 She chooses to extract resources using one of her 
tanks with an ore converter and spends one energy 
to extract one ore. The other tank with an ore 
converter does not extract anything.
2 .	She chooses to extract resources using her 
standard tank in the river zone and extracts one 
water. She does not need to spend any energy to 
do this.
3 .	She places one ore on her ore carrier and one 
water on her water carrier.
Basic Extraction Example

Supercharger
A tank with a supercharger extracts one additional 
resource.
Support Airship
A tank in the same horizontal row as the mooring point 
on which the support airship is located extracts one 
additional resource.
Bonus Extraction Example 
(Supercharger and Synergy)
The orange player has four grouped standard 
tanks. One of them has a supercharger. He also 
has a class 2 water carrier with no water on it. 
Thus, it can hold a maximum of seven water.
1 .	 He spends four energy (one energy per tank) 
to extract resources with each of his tanks.
2 .	He extracts four water through basic 
extraction (one per tank).
3 .	He extracts one water through bonus 
extraction from the supercharger.
4 .	He extracts three water through bonus 
extraction from the synergy effect (4-1=3).
5 .	He places seven water on his water carrier.
6 .	The carrier cannot hold the eighth water he 
extracted, so he returns it to the reserve.
Bonus Extraction Example 
(Synergy and Support Airship)
The purple player has five advanced tanks with 
quartz converters. There is a group of three tanks 
and a group of two tanks. He has a class 4 quartz 
carrier.
1 .	 He spends five energy (one energy per tank) 
to extract resources with each of his tanks.
2 .	He extracts five quartz through basic 
extraction (one per tank).
3 .	He extracts two quartz through bonus 
extraction from the synergy effect of the 
group of three tanks (3-1=2).
4 .	He extracts one quartz through bonus 
extraction from the synergy effect of the pair 
of two tanks (2-1=1).
5 .	He extracts two quartz through bonus 
extraction from the support airship. (One per 
tank in the support airship’s row.)
6 .	He places 10 quartz on his quartz carrier.

Resource Terminal Overview
This section describes the gauges and tracks in 
the resource terminal.
Resource Gauges
The resource terminal contains four resource 
gauges, each consisting of a price track (white) 
and a supply track (colored). At the top of each 
resource gauge is an order number, and at the 
bottom of each resource gauge is a resource icon. 
Price Track
The price track contains a range of numbers that 
indicate the potential price, in credits, for the 
corresponding resource. Below the price track is 
a credit icon 
 to remind players that the track 
indicates that resource’s price. A resource’s price 
is marked by a price indicator, which players 
place during setup (see “Setup” on page 4). 
Each time players adjust a resource’s price, they 
move the price indicator up or down the track as 
required (see “Price Adjustment” on page 18).
A player cannot reduce a resource’s price below 
its price track’s lowest printed value or increase 
a resource’s price above its price track’s highest 
printed value.
Supply Track
The supply track contains a range of numbers 
that indicate the potential supply for the 
corresponding resource. Below the supply 
track is a supply icon 
 to remind players 
that the track indicates that resource’s supply. 
A resource’s supply is marked by a supply 
indicator, which players place during setup (see 
“Setup” on page 4).
Each time a player adjusts a resource’s supply, 
he moves the supply indicator up or down the 
track as required (up if the supply increases; 
down if it decreases).
A player cannot reduce a resource’s supply 
below zero. Additionally, a player cannot 
increase a resource’s supply above its supply 
track’s highest printed value.
Price Adjustment Track
The price adjustment track is the colored track 
in the resource terminal that is not part of any 
of the four resource gauges. Players use the 
price adjustment track to determine how a 
resource’s current price changes throughout the 
game (see “Price Adjustment” on page 18). 
Resource Terminal Anatomy
1 .	 Order Number
2 .	Resource Gauge
3 .	Price Adjustment 
Track
4 .	Price Track
5 .	Supply Track
6 .	Starting Price
7 .	Resource Icon

Pass
The current player may choose to neither buy nor sell 
a particular resource by passing. After passing, the 
current player still adjusts the resource’s price (see Price 
Adjustment” below).
Price Adjustment
After each player resolves a buy, sell, or pass action for a 
resource, he must adjust that resource’s price. 
To adjust a resource’s price, the current player checks 
the color (red, orange, yellow, green, blue, or black) of 
the resource’s current supply and compares it to the 
matching color on the price adjustment track. Then, he 
adjusts the resource’s price track by the amount equal to 
the number on the matching color of the price adjustment 
track (see “Selling Resources Example” on page 19). 
For example, if the ore supply is “9” (yellow), the current 
player decreases ore’s price by 1. A resource’s price 
cannot decrease below the minimum value on its price 
track or increase above the maximum value on 
its price track.
Buy/Sell Resources
During this step, each player may buy and sell resources 
using the resource terminal. Following the order 
numbers on the resource gauges, each player in turn 
order may buy or sell any number of that resource. For 
example, the first player may buy or sell any number of 
quartz (order number “1”), and then each other player 
in turn order may buy or sell any number of quartz. 
Then, the first player may buy or sell any number of ore 
(order number “2”) followed by each other player in 
turn order. This step continues in this manner for water 
and energy until each player has had an opportunity to 
buy or sell all four resources.
When the current player resolves his turn to buy or sell 
a particular resource, he performs one of the following 
actions: buy, sell, or pass.
Buy
To resolve a buy action, the current player may buy 
resources up to an amount equal to that resource’s supply 
by spending a number of credits equal to that resource’s 
price multiplied by the number of resources bought. The 
player takes the purchased resources from the reserve 
and places them on his carrier. Then, he decreases that 
resource’s supply by lowering the supply indicator on the 
supply track a number of spaces equal to the number of 
resources he bought. Finally, he adjusts the resource’s 
price (see “Price Adjustment” in the next column).
If a player buys more resources than he can place on 
his carrier, he returns all excess resources to the reserve 
without adjusting that resource’s supply track.
Example: Currently, the price of water is 7 credits, and the supply 
of water is 6. Jen buys two water for 14 credits. She spends 14 
credits and then takes two water from the reserve and places 
them on her water carrier. She decreases the water supply by two 
and then must adjust the price. The supply is in the green range, 
so the price does not change. Then, the next player in turn order 
has the opportunity to buy or sell water.
Sell
To resolve a sell action, the current player may sell any 
number of the resources currently on his carrier card 
by placing them in the reserve (see “Selling Resources 
Example” on page 19). Then, he receives an amount of 
credits from the reserve equal to the number of resources 
he sold multiplied by that resource’s price. After selling 
his resources, the current player increases that resource’s 
supply by raising the supply indicator on the supply track 
a number of spaces equal to the number of resources he 
sold. Then, he adjusts the resource’s price (see “Price 
Adjustment” in the next column).
A player can continue to sell a resource even if the 
supply indicator on that resource’s supply track is at its 
maximum value.
Supply and Price Indicator Adjustment
Players only adjust supply indicators in the 
following circumstances:
O When bonus resources are placed on the 
game board or are returned to the reserve.
O When resources are bought or sold during the 
O When new tanks are produced during the 
End Phase.
Players only adjust price indicators in the 
following circumstances:
O When resources are bought, resources are 
sold, or if a player passes during the Resource 
Phase.
O When no new tanks are produced during the 
End Phase.

Buy/Sell Certificates
After players have completed the Buy/Sell Resources 
step, each player may choose, in turn order, to resolve one 
of the following actions:
Buy One Building License
The current player may spend one quartz and two water 
to take one building license from the reserve and place it 
in his play area.
Sell One Building License
The current player may sell one of his building licenses 
to receive 15 credits from the reserve. If a player sells a 
building license, he must place it in the game box, not in 
the reserve. The sold license is not available for the rest of 
Buy One Luxury Quarters
The current player may spend one quartz and one ore to 
take one luxury quarters from the reserve and place it in 
his play area. Luxury quarters have a value of 50 credits 
each at the end of the game.
End Phase
During the End Phase, players produce new tanks and 
perform maintenance to prepare the game board for the 
next game round.
To resolve the End Phase, players follow these two steps:
1 .	 Produce New Tanks
2 .	 Perform Maintenance
Produce New Tanks
During this step, the local tank market produces new 
tanks, if able, using ore and energy from the resource 
terminal. Players must check the supply of ore and energy 
in the resource terminal as well as the supply of tanks in 
the local tank market to determine how many tanks, if 
any, the local tank market can produce.
Check Supply of Resources
Players check whether the supplies of ore and energy 
are greater than 0. If one or both of the supplies are 
at “0” on the supply track, then the local tank market cannot 
produce new tanks. Additionally, for each supply that is 
at “0” on the track (ore and energy only), players must 
increase that resource’s price by moving its corresponding 
price indicator up four spaces on its price track.
If the supplies for both ore and energy are greater than 0, 
the players must check the local tank market to make 
sure there is space for additional tanks (see “Check Local 
Tank Market” on page 20). 
Selling Resources Example
Energy is the last resource bought or sold in the 
Resource Phase. Currently, the price of energy 
is 4 credits, and the supply of energy is 9.
1 .	 The purple player chooses to sell five energy. 
He takes five energy from his energy carrier 
and places them in the reserve.
2 .	 He takes 20 credits from the reserve for the sale.
3 .	He increases the energy supply indicator five 
spaces to “14.” 
4 .	He checks the energy supply track to 
determine how to adjust the price for energy. 
Since the supply of energy is currently in the 
red range, he checks the red portion on the 
price adjustment track, which is “–3.”
5 .	He decreases the price indicator on the energy 
price track from “4” to “1.” The price of energy 
for the next player is now 1 credit. After all 
players have completed their buying/selling of 
energy, the Buy/Sell Resources step ends.

Example 1: There are 5 ore and 9 energy in the resource 
terminal—enough resources to produce up to five tanks There 
are seven tanks in the local tank market, providing space to 
produce up to seven new tanks. As a result, the local tank market 
produces five tanks. Players move the local tank supply marker 
five spaces in the direction away from the out of stock space. 
Players reduce the ore and energy supply by 5 each.
Example 2: There are 5 ore and 9 energy in the resource 
terminal. There are 11 tanks in the local tank market, so it can 
only produce up to three new tanks. Players move the local tank 
supply marker three spaces in the direction away from the out of 
stock space. Players reduce the ore and energy supply by 3 each.
Example 3: There are 5 ore and 0 energy in the resource terminal. 
The local tank market cannot produce any tanks because the 
energy supply is 0, so it does not matter how many tanks are in 
the local tank market. The price of energy increases by 4. The 
price of ore remains unchanged.
Perform Maintenance
During this step, players perform the following sub-steps:
1 .	 Players advance the round marker one space on 
the round track toward the space that contains the 
gold player icon. If players advance the marker 
to the space with the gold player icon, the game is 
over (see “Winning the Game” on page 7). If 
the game is not over, players continue to the next 
sub-step.
2 .	 Players place their specialist cards in numeric 
order in the specialist card area.
3 .	 Players remove the support airship from the game 
board and place it in the reserve.
If the game is not over, a new round begins.
Check Local Tank Market
Players check the tank supply marker on the local tank 
market track. If the marker is on the space furthest 
from the out of stock space, then the local tank market 
cannot produce new tanks. If the tank supply marker is 
positioned anywhere else on the local tank market track, 
the local tank market can produce new tanks.
Produce Tanks
Each tank costs one energy and one ore to produce. 
For each tank the local tank market produces, players 
must adjust the ore and energy supply by moving each 
resource’s supply indicator down one space on its supply 
track. Additionally, for each tank the local tank market 
produces, players must adjust the local tank market 
supply by moving the tank supply indicator one space in 
the direction away from the out of stock space. 
The local tank market keeps producing tanks, one at a 
time, until one or more of the following conditions are met:
O The supply indicator on the ore supply track 
is at “0.”
O The supply indicator on the energy supply track 
is at “0.”
O The tank supply indicator is on the space furthest 
from the out of stock space on the local tank 
market track.
Note: The local tank market produces tanks according 
to the previous rules regardless of the number of plastic 
tanks remaining in the reserve (e.g., the tank supply 
indicator can be on the maximum capacity space even 
when less than 14 plastic tanks remain in the supply). 
Tank Supply and Reserve
Unlike resources in the resource terminal, 
players cannot adjust the supply and price for 
tanks independently. Thus, players use the tank 
supply indicator to indicate the price and supply.
However, it is possible that the supply, as 
indicated on the local tank market track, exceeds 
the number of plastic tanks in the reserve. If this 
situation occurs, the supply for tanks is equal 
to the number of plastic tanks in the reserve, 
and each time a player moves the tank supply 
marker, only the tank price changes. 

Variable Claim Marker Setup
When using this advanced rule, players do not place any 
starting claim markers on the map during setup; the map 
is empty at the start of the game except for the unused 
zones in a two- or three-player game. Then, during the 
Expansion Phase of the first game round, immediately 
after the specialist card auction, each player in turn order 
places claim markers on the map.
After setup, players must agree on the number of neutral 
claim markers to place on the river zones. If all players 
cannot agree, the first player rolls the die to determine the 
number as follows:
Two-Player Game
O 1–3: Players place neutral claim markers on a 
O 4–6: Players cannot place neutral claim markers on 
Three-Player Game
O 1–4: Players place neutral claim markers on a 
O 5–6: Players cannot place neutral claim markers on 
Four- and Five-Player Game
O 1–5: Players place neutral claim markers on a 
O 6: Players cannot place neutral claim markers on 
The first player places the appropriate number of neutral 
claim markers on the river zones of his choice. After 
determining the neutral claim marker layout for the river 
zones, each player takes two neutral claim markers from 
the reserve. In games with fewer than five players, the first 
player takes four neutral claim markers instead of two.
Then, beginning with the first player and continuing in 
turn order, each player places one of his claim markers on 
an empty zone and one neutral claim marker on an empty 
zone. In games with fewer than five players, the first 
player places two neutral claim markers.
Finally, starting with the last player and continuing in 
reverse turn order, each player places one of his own 
claim markers on an empty zone and one neutral claim 
marker on an empty zone. In games with fewer than five 
players, the first player places two neutral claim markers.
After the variable claim marker setup is completed, the 
game continues as usual.
Advanced Rules
It is recommended that players use the following 
advanced rules only after all players are familiar with the 
game. All advanced rules are independent of each other, 
and players can add them (or not) as they wish.
Note: The length of the game increases by about 30 
minutes if players use all the advanced rules.
Immobile Tanks
When using this advanced rule, a player cannot move a 
tank after he has placed it on a zone. However, he can still 
move his converters and superchargers freely.
River Production Limits
In this variant, only water and energy can be extracted 
on river zones. Tanks there cannot have ore or quartz 
converters. As a result, the synergy effect cannot span the 
river zones for ore or quartz extraction.
Variable Trading Order
When using this advanced rule, players must place the 
four order markers near the game board during setup. 
The order markers replace the pre-printed order numbers 
in the resource terminal, allowing players to specify the 
order in which resources are bought and sold during the 
After a player wins a specialist card bidding round, he 
must place one of the available order markers on any order 
number space in the resource terminal that does not already 
contain an order marker. Players remove all order markers 
from the game board during the Perform Maintenance step 
of the End Phase.
In a two-player game, each player places two order 
markers instead of one. In a three-player game, players 
place the remaining order marker on the last empty order 
number space. In a five-player game, the last player does 
not get to place an order marker.
During the Resource Phase, players buy and sell resources 
in the order determined by the new order numbers.
Example: Martin wins the first bidding round of the specialist card 
auction. He chooses Lady Steam (card number 1) and places the 
card in his play area. He chooses quartz as his bonus resource, 
placing it on his quartz carrier card. Finally, he takes trading 
marker “4” and places it in the order number space corresponding 
to water in the resource terminal. Water is the last resource players 
can buy and sell in the Resource Phase this game round.

Using the Card: The player who receives the price 
manipulation card must use it immediately. To use the price 
manipulation card, the player must manipulate the prices 
in the resource terminal in one of the following ways:
O Weak Manipulation: The player adjusts the price for 
one resource (excluding quartz) by moving its price 
indicator a maximum of three spaces up or down. 
O Moderate Manipulation: The player spends 
four credits to adjust the prices of any resources 
(excluding quartz) by moving their price indicators 
a maximum of four spaces. 
O Strong Manipulation: The player spends eight 
credits to adjust the price for any resources by 
moving their price indicators a maximum of five 
spaces.
Example: Jen spends four credits and uses moderate manipulation 
to move the price indicator for ore up three spaces and to move the 
price indicator for energy down one space. She has moved price 
indicators the maximum allowed by moderate manipulation, so 
her manipulation is finished.
Returning the Card: At the beginning of the End Phase, 
the player who possesses the price manipulator card takes 
credits from the reserve equal to the order number on his 
specialist card. Then, he returns the price manipulator 
card to the specialist card area.
Sabotage 
The sabotage card allows the player in possession 
of the card to prevent one of his opponents from 
using one tank for one game round. During the 
Prepare Specialists Cards step of setup, place 
the sabotage card in the specialist card area.
Acquiring the Card: During each Auction 
Specialist Cards step after the first game round, the 
player who wins the final bidding round of the specialist 
card auction takes both the remaining specialist card and 
the sabotage card from the specialist card area.
Using the Card: The player who receives the sabotage 
card must use it immediately. To use the sabotage card, 
the player chooses one opposing player. Then, the chosen 
player selects one tank on one of his claimed zones and 
tips the tank on its side, indicating that he cannot use that 
tank during the rest of the round.
A player cannot use or relocate a tank that is on its side. 
As such, any tank that is on its side cannot extract any 
resources, nor can any converters or superchargers be 
attached to it or removed from it.
Returning the Card: At the beginning of the End Phase, 
the player who controls a tank that is on its side returns 
the tank to its standing position and rolls the die. He 
takes a number of credits equal to the die result multiplied 
by two from the reserve. Then, the player who possesses 
the sabotage card returns it to the specialist card area. 
Reduced Starting Resources
During steps 10 (Take Starting Resources) and 11 (Take 
Starting Credits) of setup, players use the following table 
instead of “Table 2” on page 24.
Table 3: Reduced Player Starting 
Credits and Resources
Quartz
Ore
Water
Energy
Optional Rules
If all players agree at the start of the game, players may 
use one or both of the following optional rules when 
playing the standard or advanced game.
Predictable Zone Claiming
Players can resolve the Claim Zone step of the Expansion 
Phase without rolling a die. Instead, the current player can 
claim any unclaimed zone of his choice.
Additionally, the current player still has the option to use 
a building license.
Optional Cards
Planet Steam includes three optional cards, originally 
printed as promotional cards. They can choose to 
use none, any, or all of these cards during a game.
Price Manipulation 
The price manipulation card allows the 
player in possession of the card to adjust the 
price indicators in the resource terminal. 
During the Prepare Specialists Cards step of 
setup, place the price manipulation card in 
the specialist card area.
Acquiring the Card: During each Auction Specialist 
Cards step, the player who wins the first bidding round 
of the specialist card auction takes both the specialist card 
of his choice and the price manipulation card from the 
specialist card area.

Game Design: H.G. Thiemann
Producer: Mark O’Connor
Original English Rules: Patrick Korner
Technical Writing: Adam Baker
Graphic Design: David Ardila with Chris Beck and 
Brian Schomburg
Cover and Card Art: Ian McQue
3D Sculpting and Concepting: Jason Beaudoin
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Administration: Zoë Robinson
Production Management: Eric Knight
Production Coordination: John Britton, Megan Duehn, 
and Jason Glawe
Managing Game Producer: Steven Kimball
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Game Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen 
The designer would like to thank all playtesters and people who 
helped create this game. In particular: the Hippodice Game Club, 
all players at AllGames4you, Malte and Helge Thiemann, 
Wolfgang and Erika Fleiter, Martin Götz, Harald Bilz, Heiko 
Eller, Oliver Erhardt, Heribert Bertram, Michal Scharf, Jürgen 
Kiesheyer, Karin and Mathias Michels, Oliver Warzecha, 
Claudia and Uwe Dinglinger, as well as Uwe Rosenberg, Basti, 
Keith Hurley, Lukas Litzsinger, Brady Sadler, and many more.
Freelance Carrier 
The freelance carrier card allows the 
player in possession of the card to hold 
additional resources. During the Take 
Starting Carrier Cards step of setup, place 
the freelance carrier card next to the game board. 
Acquiring the Card: At the end of Expansion Phase of 
the first game round, players auction the freelance carrier 
card following the same rules for auctioning specialist 
cards (see “Auction Specialist Cards” on page 11). The 
player who wins the bidding round for the freelance 
carrier card places it in his play area next to his other 
carrier cards. Instead of placing the credits he spent for 
the auction in the reserve, he places them on the freelance 
carrier card. These credits act as a reminder of how many 
credits the player bid to receive the freelance carrier card; 
he cannot spend these credits. 
Using the Card: The player who possesses the freelance 
carrier card can use it to hold additional resources. The 
freelance carrier has a load capacity of three resources 
and can carry any type and combination of resources. 
If a player loses control of the freelance carrier card, he 
can redistribute any resources on it to his other carriers. 
If he doesn’t have room on his other four carriers for the 
additional resources, he must place all excess resources in 
the reserve. 
Returning the Card: At the end of the Expansion Phase 
after a player acquired the freelance carrier card, he can 
choose to keep it or auction it again. To keep the card 
for an additional game round, he spends a number of 
credits equal to the number he used to win the previous 
bidding round (the number of credits he placed on the 
freelance carrier card). Then, he removes all credits from 
the freelance carrier card and places them in the reserve. 
He cannot keep the freelance carrier card for a third 
consecutive game round; he must auction it. However, he 
can bid and win the auction according to the normal rules.
© 2013 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. No part of this product may be reproduced 
without specific permission. Copyright of the German version by Heidelberger 
Spieleverlag. Planet Steam, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the 
FFG logo are ™ or ® of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games 
is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, 
USA, and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information 
for your records. Warning! Not suitable for children under 3 years due to small 
parts. Choking hazard. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in 
China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.

Setup for Different Numbers of Players
2-Player Setup
Table 1: Resource Supplies and 
Certificate Reserves
# of Players
Quartz Supply
Ore Supply
Water Supply
Energy Supply
Building Licenses
Luxury Quarters
Table 2: Player Starting 
Credits and Resources
# of Players
Quartz
Ore
Water
Energy
Depending on the number of players, use the tables and diagrams below to set up the game. Table 1 establishes the 
quantity of resources in the supply and certificates in the reserve. Table 2 indicates the number of starting credits 
and resources that each player receives. The diagrams depict how to place starting claim markers on the map.
3-Player Setup
4-Player Setup
5-Player Setup