Components
	
150 picture cards	
Draw | Discard card
	
scoring | answer pad	
pencils
	
90 second timer
Setup
Place deck of cards off to one side. Give each player an 
answer sheet and pencil.
Overview
There are six rounds. In each round you will lay out 
eleven PICTURE CARDS and players will attempt to pair 
them up based on themes or relationships or other 
connections they make.
	
While it’s fun to explain the reason you paired two 
	
items, it’s not required nor does it have to make 
	
sense. Your connections can be straightforward, 
	
funny, or just plain weird! Just have fun with it!
Play
To begin each round, deal out 11 cards to the table so 
that eleven random images are shown face up.
As soon as all 11 of the cards are revealed, flip the 
timer! Players now have 90 seconds to secretly pair 
them up on their score sheets. Only pairs written 
down before the time is up will count for scoring! 
You may put the 11th, unpaired image into the 
Bad Apple slot, this will not score.
Once everyone has finished, pick a player 
to announce their pairs. When a pair is 
revealed, that player raises his hand.
EVERYONE else who has that same pair 
raises their hand. EVERYONE with a hand raised 
scores 1 point per hand raised and writes that 
score underneath that pair on their sheet.
However, if everyone raised their hand, the score is 
zero for that pair. If no one matches an announced 
pair, it scores zero. The starting player continues to 
read off their list of pairs until they are finished. Continue 
clockwise around the table with each player announcing 
their remaining unscored pairs.
To play the next round, flip the 11 cards over. Once you 
have used both sides of the cards, discard them and 
draw 11 new ones.
Game End
The game ends at the end of the sixth round. Total your 
scores for the six rounds. Highest score wins!
Adjustable Pair Pluckin’
For a longer or shorter game you may decide in the 
beginning to play more or less rounds.
Bad Apples
You may opt to score the leftover image in the Bad 
Apple slot. If you do so, it’s worth twice (2X) the number 
of raised hands!
Designer – Stephen Glenn
Editor – Frank DiLorenzo
Title – Frankie DiLorenzo
Illustrations – Scott Fleenor
Graphic Design – Jenn Vargas
Special Thanks for Meritorious Testing: 
Tidewater Area Gaming Society (TAGS)
©2012 R&R Games Inc., all rights reserved.