Object of the Game:
Be the player with the fewest points by avoiding the toxic concoctions in the cauldrons! Play a Potion Card
into one of three cauldrons, each with its own color. If the total value of the cards in a cauldron exceed 13,
then you are forced to take all the cards in that cauldron. Try not to take any Potion Cards, but if you must,
make sure you have the most of that color so that you can be immune to its power! There are eight Poison
Cards in the game that not only sabotage the cauldrons, but your score as well!
Contents:
3 Cauldron Boards and 50 cards:
Set up:
Choose a player to deal and begin the first round. The dealer passes to the left in subsequent rounds. At the 
beginning of a round, the dealer shuffles and deals all the cards, one by one, to the players. Depending on the 
number of players, some might receive one card more than the others.
NOTE: With only three players, deal FOUR hands, and remove the extra hand from the game.
Game Play:
The player to the left of the dealer begins, and play proceeds clockwise. On your turn, you must play one of 
your cards face up into a cauldron.There may not be Potion Cards of the same color in more than one 
cauldron at a time. Each Potion Card must be played in the cauldron of its color. However, Poison Cards may
be played in any cauldron. (If a cauldron contains only Poison Cards, its color is not yet determined. The
Potion Card added to the cauldron will determine the cauldron's color, but the cauldron must not be the same 
color as any other existing cauldron.)
If you play a card that makes the value of a cauldron exceed 13, then you must take all of the previous cards in 
that cauldron, and place them face down in front of you. The card that you played that caused the cauldron to
exceed 13 remains in the cauldron.
Note: You may not look at your face down cards at any point until the end of the game.
Instructions
in English
Fourteen Potion
Cards in each of 
three colors
(with two cards
each valued at 4 
and three cards
each valued at
1, 2, 5, and 7)
Eight Poison
Cards valued
at 4
For 3 to 6 Players, Ages 10 to Adult
Playing time: 10 minutes per round