Welcome to the 5th century BC, to the splendour of the Poleis, 
city-states of the Greek culture that form the civilization’s cultural 
centre during their time.
Culture and blood, glory and destruction coexist in this exciting 
and unique historical period, in which the ambition of Athens 
and Sparta lead them to a long struggle over hegemony.
Previous to this confrontation, the Greek Poleis find themselves 
under the threat of surrendering to the Persian power in the Persian 
Wars and losing their identity and autonomy. Facing together a 
possible extinction, a strong Panhellenic feeling emerged in several 
Poleis, that teamed up under the command of the two main 
Poleis, Athens and Sparta, and with an iron conviction to fight for 
survival, they managed to defeat such a powerful enemy.
However, after victory, both powers, with colliding views regarding 
government, army, economy, and many aspects of understanding 
society, even life itself, started to distrust the growing power that the 
opposite Polis accumulated, causing an expansionist and military 
race that eventually ended up in an epic clash between them.
Culture, arts and philosophy flourished in this period, known 
as the Classic Period, especially in Athens, hand in hand with 
Pericles. Nevertheless, the two most powerful Poleis, the now 
conflicting Athens and Sparta, confronted periodically over the 
Greek hegemony, a fight that lasted until the mutual destruction 
that the Second Peloponnesian War brought about, which 
although it ended with the surrender of Athens, it meant the 
definitive weakening of both powers.
Each player will play the role of Athens or Sparta, expanding 
their power, striving to make other Poleis join their cause by 
means of diplomacy or force, administrating in a reasonable 
manner their growing Poleis League, knowing when to expand 
without depleting their resources, trading to obtain the scarce 
wheat, fighting against the enemy armies when necessary, and 
gaining prestige with your actions. Have fun!
Fight for the Hegemony
2 Players – 150 minutes
- 2 -
COMPONENTS
• 1 Board: where the map is 
displayed in its central and 
right area. In the left section, it 
is contained the Market Value 
table, the Territory Tables, the 
spaces for placing the Projects 
of each round and the spaces 
to specify the current round.
• 40 Event cards: that they will be put into play 
at the beginning of each round and divided in 
round Events: 3, 4, 5α, and 5β respectively.
• 18 Polis cards: to be set if each Polis is neutral 
or affiliated to a player, its base population 
or fortificacion, its maximum growth and its 
maximum population.
• 14 Project cards: which represent the different 
works which the Poleis might undertake; they 
also represent the attraction of certain personali-
ties of Ancient Greece.
• 24 Combat cards: to solve the battles, either land 
or sea battles.
• 1 four sided die: for determining the increase or 
reduction of the market value of certain goods, 
and for resolving sieges.
• 45 blue wooden cubes and 45 red wooden cubes: 
which will be used as Poleis population, hoplites 
and galleys of each player. Also, they will be used 
for marking the goods in the individual boards of 
each player.
• 5 black wooden cubes: for marking the market 
value of the four kind of goods and the current 
round.
• 25 blue wooden discs and 25 red wooden discs: 
for marking the ownership of each polis and the 
collection of each territory.
• 8 blue wooden ships and 8 red wooden ships: 
which represent the merchants of each player.
• 1 blue pawn and 1 red pawn: which represent the 
proxenos of each player.
• 2 individual boards: for showing not only the available goods 
in the stock of each player, but the prestige also. 

- 3 -
MAIN TERMS
The two main terms of “Polis: Fight for the Hegemony” are 
the population and the prestige, its importance lies on the 
fact that the player’s final score is the addition of both 
elements when finishing the four rounds that take place 
during a game.
Therefore, the player must achieve all the remaining aspects 
of the game, keeping in mind that only these two elements 
of the game will give him or her the final victory.
The population lives in the Poleis. In the game, the players 
will struggle to have the greatest number of the 18 altoge-
ther as allies of his or her Poleis League, but taking into 
account that they must feed their population when the 
round finishes (otherwise, they will see how their prestige 
or own population decrease). 
The key to success in the game will be to know how much 
your influence may expand in a right way without underta-
king an excessive and unsustainable expansion or avoiding 
a lack of ambition that will make the victory of the oppo-
nent player’s Poleis League easier.
The Poleis appears in the map with a encircled number that 
represents, two things: First, base population, this is the 
population that the city has when it is not owned by a player 
(neutral Polis); secondly, it represents its fortification, that it 
is a concept that affects the action Besiege Polis (page 9), 
representing the difficulty to besiege a Polis (more difficult 
with a higher fortress number). 
When a Polis is owned by a player, its population might 
range between a minimum of 1 and the maximum popula-
tion, information that appears in the Polis card next to 
maximum growth per round. 
The population of every Polis is represented by means of 
wooden cubes (in the same quantity) in the player’s colour 
(red for Sparta and blue for Athens) and they are placed 
next to the Polis Card in the player possesion.
These cubes, through the payment of part of player’s 
goods, might become one of the three kind of units inside 
the board: hoplites, galleys and merchants.
In this way, the player reduces his or her population (and 
his or her final victory points), but he or she needs those 
three kinds of units, by means of the actions that every unit 
could make, to obtain the necessary goods and prestige to 
extend his or her power.
The land military unit is the hoplite, the infantry of the 
Classic Greece. In the game, it is the cube that is placed in 
a territory. A player with the highest number of them will 
exert blockades to the land movements.
The sea military unit is the galley, the period’s warship 
manned by rowers. In the game it is the cube that is placed 
in a sea. A player with the highest number of them will 
exert blockades in sea movements and in the merchants 
routes.
The battles take place when there are 8 or more units 
(hoplites/galleys) in a same region (territory or sea) between 
both players. In order to solve the battle, the combat card 
deck is used. The battle includes rounds in which both 
players play two combat cards, and the rounds alternate 
until the deck is out, a player has less than 2 units or as a 
result of other circumstances more detailed in the Battle 
section (on page 14). 
The trade unit is the merchant. They allow to obtain the 
two most prized goods: Silver by means of bartering with 
other goods, and Wheat, obtained by the same way or 
paying silver. Their trade routes are affected by the blocka-
des exerted by galleys.
The diplomatic unit is the Proxenos, an influential and 
scheming character in the Polis where he lived. The Proxe-
nos is guided by bribes and, because of that, he is not 
affected by a blockade of hoplites nor galleys.
The player will manage six types of goods, represented in 
the player board:
The prestige, apart from adding it to the final 
score, is essential to undertake military actions. It 
is obtained by acquiring new Poleis, completing 
projects, causing casualties in battles, and having Poleis 
with a large population. 
Base Population - Fortification
Maximum Growth
Maximum Population

Market Value
Territory Box
Market
Loads
Territory
Route
Sea
Trade Port
Round Track
Project 
- 4 -
BOARD
The picture of the right locates 
the main elements of the board 
described in the rulebook.
It consists of two main parts: 
one column with the common 
information for both players (the 
market’s value of the four goods 
that fluctuate, the goods that can 
be obtained in each territory, the 
available projects, and the number 
of the present round), the other 
part is the map with the 12 territo-
ries, the 5 seas, the 18 Poleis, the 5 
markets, the 2 trade ports and the 
routes.
INITIAL SETUP
(left position)
Place 4 cubes at the right of the 4 Goods symbols
Place 1 cube in Round type 3 
Cubes as Base Population
Cubes as Base Population
Red Discs in Pylos, Gytheion and Sparta
3 Hoplites in Lakedaimon
1 Galley in Ionio Pelagos
1 Galley in Myrtöo Pelagos
1 Merchant (in trade port)
Proxenos in Sparta
Chios
Blue Discs in Chios, Chalkis and Athenai
3 Hoplites in Attika
2 Hoplites in Ionia
2 Galleys in Kyklades 
1 Galley in Nóties Sporádes
1 Merchant (in trade port)
Proxenos in Athenait
Chalkis
(right position)
Place neutral Poleis above the Board

GAME START AND COURSE 
OF THE GAME
The game takes place during 4 rounds so-called type 3, 4, 
5a and 5b that correspond with the main historical periods 
since the founding of the Delian League (478 BC) until the 
final defeat of Athens in the Second Peloponnesian War (404 
BC):
• The first round (3) corresponds to the beginning of the Athenian 
expansion, in which they defeat once and for all the Persian fleets 
that still remained in the Eastern coasts of the Nóties Sporádes 
while Sparta suffers the scandals of the trials against his king, 
Leotychidas II, and his general, Pausanias.
• The second round (4) begins in the 460 BC, and it is the first in 
which battles might take place between players. It coincides with 
the time in which the military confrontations begin between the 
two powers in the called First Peloponnesian War and with the 
government of Pericles who took the splendor to Athens.
• The third round (5α) begins with a new worsening of the 
confrontation in the called Archidamus War, during which Sparta 
made raids in the Attika region. The Attika’s population sheltered 
en masse behind the Athenian walls and they were decimated by 
the plague; among the losses was Pericles. Athens managed to 
recover and finally both sides signed a brief truce with the Peace 
of Nicias.
• The last round (5β) includes the final confrontantion between 
the two powers, in which the fickle military genius, Alcibiades, 
managed to command both armies. Athens embarked in a 
disastrous campaign in Sicily and Sparta dealt the final blow by 
cutting the supply lines of wheat to Athens, thanks to her last 
naval victories.
The round type will come by the number specified in each 
space (3, 4, 5 and 5) and it represents the maximum quantity 
of hoplites and galleys that each player can keep in a region 
(territory or sea) and the loads that become available from 
that round. The name “α” and “β” is used to differentiate the 
two rounds type 5 and each one has its own events group.
For example: in the first round, type 3, a region can only house 
3 hoplites or 3 galleys of each player (that is, 6 as a maximum). 
In the round type 4, 4 hoplites or 4 galleys of each player (8 as 
a maximum). In the rounds type 5α and type 5β, 5 hoplites or 
5 galleys of each player (10 as a maximum). In the case of trade, 
in the round type 3, the only available loads will be those with a 
value of 3, in the round type 4 the loads with value of 4 too, and 
in the rounds 5α and 5β, they are joined by the loads with value 
of 5. 
In order to start the game, you must have the setup specified 
in the previous section (page 4).
In the same way, the projects must be shuffled and they are 
placed facedown next to the board. The same is done with 
each one of the four event card groups that corresponds to 
each one of the rounds. 
Now and also before starting each successive round, the 3 
project cards of the top of the shuffled deck will be revealed, 
which become available and they are placed in the projects 
area (in the lower left section of the board). 1 event card of 
the present round will be revealed. This event card will be 
placed in an intermediate place between both players.
The player with more Prestige (in a tie, the Athenian player) 
reads out loud completely the Event card and he applies what 
is appropriate, and then the other player does the same. If the 
text has a blue background only affects the Athenian player 
and if it is red only the Spartan player. Some cards might 
determine its effect to the course of the round or its end, in 
this case, both players should remember the use of the event 
card during all the round.
The first turn of the round is for the player with less Prestige 
at the beginning of the round (in a tie, the Spartan player), in 
other words, the player who applied the Event card secondly.
In each round, both players carry out alternately turns with 
two different actions to one another, choosing between the 
12 possible actions (each military action costs 1 Prestige 
point).
At the end of the player’s turn, it will be checked if a battle 
takes place.
When a player decides to pass (stop making one or both 
actions during his turn), he will not perform any more 
actions in the present round. Then the opponent will play 
carrying out actions alone until he wishes to stop, but each 
action will cost 1 resource of the player stock at his or her 
choice (1 metal, wood, wine, oil, silver or wheat resource) 
before he can perform the action. 
A round does not have a certain number of turns, it will 
finish when both players have decided to pass.
Below, the 12 Action types are described (4 Development 
type, 4 Military and 4 Political actions). Remember that 
in each turn the player may perform two actions that must 
differ from one another. 
DEVELOPMENT ACTIONS
1. Create Hoplites
The hoplites are recruited between the population of a single 
polis, and they are placed in the territory where it belongs 
as long as the territory might keep them (according to the 
round).
For each hoplite that is made, the player pays 1 metal (or 
1 silver) from his stock as a cost for the impedimenta of 
the soldiers and he or she moves 1 population cube from 
the polis card to its territory (the polis can not run out of 
population). 
In the game, it is considered that the logistics develops 
throughout the game making that the capacity of the armies 
increases during the rounds: in the 3, 4 and the two of the 
type 5; 3, 4 and 5 hoplites of each player will fit in a territory 
respectively.
- 5 -

The two poleis that don’t correspond to neither territory: 
Epidamnos and Abdera (without colored background in 
the card) can’t create hoplites, only galleys.
In the next example the Spartan player, that owns Pylos with a 
population of 3 (the maximum that can shelter this polis), decides 
as an action to create Hoplites.
This is the first round (type 3) and, in Messenia, 2 more hoplites 
still fit in this territory.
The player pays 2 metal resources (the player has 3) and moves 
two population cubes to Messenia territory (Pylos belongs to it) 
who become Hoplites.
2. Create Galleys
This action can be carried out in a single polis that has a 
port.
The galleys are made in the Polis shipyard and they are 
placed in the sea where the arrow of the polis is pointing at 
in the map, as long as the sea can keep them (according to 
the round).
For each galley that is made, the player pays 1 wood (or 1 
silver) from his stock as a cost for the hull of the ship and 
moves 1 population cube (its crew) from the polis card to 
the corresponding sea (the polis can not run out of popula-
tion).
The two poleis without port: Sparta and Thebai can’t create 
galleys, only hoplites.
There is a polis that has two ports (two arrows appear in 
the map): Korinthos, that might place its galleys in the 
corresponding sea which the player wishes.
The Athenian player, that owns Chalkis with a population of 2 
(its maximum), performs Creating Galleys action in the second 
round (type 4).
The player spends 1 wood resource and moves 1 cube from the 
polis to the sea of the Kyklades that now becomes the last galley 
according to the round (the fourth).
3. Create Merchants
This action can only be made in one of the three existing 
trade poleis. As it can be seen in the ilustrations below, 
these poleis have the symbol of a trade port and their names 
appear underlined in the map: Pylos or Gytheion for the 
Spartan player and Athenai for the Athenian player.
For every merchant that the player has made, the player pays 
1 wood (or 1 silver) from his stock as a cost for the hull of 
the ship and he removes 1 cube from the population of the 
trade polis (the polis can not run out of population) and 
places 1 ship piece in the trade port (the colored area) that 
corresponds: the Spartan area is placed between the Ionio 
Pelagos and the Myrtöo Pelagos and the Athenian area is in 
the Kyklades (read the section “Board” on page 4)
Only the specified player with the card symbol’s color can 
create Merchants in that polis.
So, for example, the Athenian player cannot create them in Pylos 
or Gytheion. 
4. Begin Project
Certain poleis have the chance to undertake the construc-
tion of one or several projects. These projects provide the 
so necessary Prestige to the player that fulfills them. The 
projects that can be initiated appear in the own polis card 
and must be chosen between those available in that moment 
in the board. 
You can only begin a Project in a polis that does not have 
already another project in progress (a turned card can not 
build a new project again in this round).
The player must pay the cost in resources to be able to 
begin a project (he or she can always replace each set of 
resources to pay for the same quantity in silver). Afterwards, 
the player turns the polis card where the project is began 
and he places the project card over that polis card, covering 
it partially. That project will not be available for the other 
player, although he might capture the polis by siege or civil 
war in order to get hold of its benefits.
- 6 -

MILITARY ACTIONS
Every Military Action always 
costs 1 Prestige Point.
5. Move Hoplites (-1 Prestige)
The hoplites movement may be by land or by sea and is 
always performed between territories.
You can combine those two types of movement when you 
use the hoplites, but the destination of all must be the same 
and they can’t exceed the round capacity (3, 4, 5, and 5). 
Therefore, the maximum quantity of hoplites that can be 
moved in an action would be 5, circumstance that only 
happens if they move to an empty territory in one of the 
last two rounds (5α or 5β).
In the land type, the hoplites move between territories, 
without crossing any territory controlled by the other player 
(where he has more cubes than you). He can control the 
origin or destination territory because your hoplites are not 
crossing it.
The movement of hoplites, although their destination has to 
be the same, is not simultaneous. For this reason the player 
has to think in which order he will move them, because it 
might happen that removing the hoplites from regions that 
they share with hoplites of the opposite player, they gain 
control of the regions (because they have now the majority) 
and the enemy hoplites block the movement through that 
region.
- 7 -
-1
The Athenian player decides to Begin a 
Project in Athenai. He checks that there are 
2 remaining projects available and among 
them the only one that he can undertake is 
the Philosopher, Socrates.
He pays the cost to begin this Project, that 
is 6 silver resources (this cost is shown in 
the white boxed areas), he takes the card 
and places it over the Athenai polis card 
that he turns to indicate that a Project is 
being developed, in this case, housing the 
Philosopher Socrates among his citizens.
At the end of a round, the poleis of each player that are 
developing a project, will finish them, awarding them with 
immediate Prestige points and “for posterity” (between 
brackets, are awarded at the end of the game).
Following the example, if Athenai achieves 
to fulfill the project, Socrates will give him 4 
immediate Prestige points and 2 for posterity.
If a polis changes of player owner, he receives it with all 
the projects in progress and/or completed, as the opposite 
player had them. If the polis becomes neutral, because the 
player owner could not feed it at the end of a round or by 
besiege, the projects remain in the city as they are at the 
players disposal, if one of them recover the polis. 
There are 14 unique projects and 3 of them become available 
for the players at the start of each one of the 4 rounds 
(therefore, 2 will not appear in each game, so it might be possible 
in a game that Socrates decides to study butterflies instead of 
developing the philosophical thinking). 
The 14 projects gathers in 7 types (in brackets the quantity 
of each group):
• Philosopher (3): In the card it appears the silver needed to at-
tract a pilosopher to your polis. They could go to Syrakousai 
or Athenai. In these project cards, its title is the name of the 
thinker, the instruction that he is a philosopher appears just 
below. 
• Artist (1): Phidias will make beautiful sculptures and he 
will design splendid buildings in exchange of a wage in 
silver, in the same way that philosophers. The Athenian 
player must have the peace of mind that the artist will only 
accept to work in Athenai, but on the other hand, he must 
take into account that the immediate Prestige of the artist’s 
contributions depends on the importance that the own 
capital has in that round, because Phidias awards with as 
many points as the half of the population rounded up at 
the end of the round. 
• Temple (2): These are impressive buildings, being difficult to 
defray, considering the amount of wood and metal that they 
need in the process and by the silver needed for the workers 
wages, but they will give a big boost to whom might build 
them. Syrakousai and Sparta can undertake its construction.
• Theater (2): These are buildings more affordable than 
temples. Their stands are made in the hillsides next to the 
polis. Korinthos, Thebai and Athenai can build them. 
• Statue (2): These are the projects easier to build, the devout 
sculptors only ask for wood to their rulers and maybe some 
metal resources for the frame and scaffolding, but the Prestige 
that awards in exchange is trifling. Epidamnos, Abdera, Gela 
and Sparta are the poleis eager to raise them. 
• Festival (2): These are celebrations in which wine is used to 
be smothered over the presents, so this is the more necessary 
resource. Sparta, Poteidaia and Samos welcome them.
• Games (2): Apart from the Olympics, other minor games 
took place periodically in the Greek poleis, where oil was 
given, and ocassionally wine, as an award to the winners of 
the competitions. They can be played in Pydna, Argos and 
Korinthos. .

- 8 -
The sea movement of hoplites must follow the same rule 
as land movement: only crossing seas not controlled by 
the opposite player (again, he can control the origin or des-
tination territory but not the seas you cross). Each hoplite 
cube moved in this way embarks in the sea corresponding 
to the territory where it is and disembarks in the common 
destination without moving through land regions. For 
checking this movement you have to follow the broken 
lines of the sea route, taking into account that if anyone 
owns Korinthos, he or she can move hoplites from Ionio 
Pelagos to Kyklades and vice versa, directly crossing by the 
diolkos of the isthmus (see the two arrows of the polis in 
the map).
The term “embark” does not involve that the hoplites need 
allied galleys where they have to cross. These seas could even 
be empty. 
All the territories have, at least, a sea where the hoplites can 
embark to or from in this type of movement.
For example: to Makedonia only corresponds the Thrakiko 
Pelagos but to Thessalia corresponds three seas: Thrakiko Pelagos, 
Kyklades (both by their northeastern coast), and the Ionio Pelagos 
(southwest coast).
There are two territories, without any other adjacent territory, 
where the hoplites can only enter or leave by means of sea 
movement: These are Sicily (by the Ionio Pelagos) and Ionia 
(by the Nóties Sporádes).
At the top of this page appears a movement example with 5 
hoplites (so in one of the two last rounds) in which the two types 
are combined: by land and by sea, and that will be useful to see 
the importance of the order in which the hoplites are moved.
The destination has to be the same and the Athenian player 
chooses the Thessalia territory in which he has no hoplites. The 
forces that he moves are in three different territories.
A.- He begins to move his hoplite from the Ionia region (with the 
1 number) by a sea movement. He must embark in the territory 
where he is and he can already do it because the opposite player 
is not blocking the Nóties Sporádes (by having more galleys), the 
hoplite crosses the Kyklades (in this case Athens would block all 
the spartan movement that crosses this sea because he controls it by 
having more triremes) and the hoplite disembarks in the destination 
territory: Thessalia.
B.- By land movement the player moves two more hoplites 
(numbers 2 and 3) from Attika through Boiotia, where neither 
player is blocking the way by controlling the territory (both 
players have 2 hoplites).
C.- Finally, again by land movement, the player moves the 2 
hoplites that he has in Boiotia, first number 4 (that left the 
territory under Spartan control) and then number 5 (moving 
from a territory which is now controlled by the enemy but he 
can do it because he is not crossing it).
The order in the sea movement (A) is unimportant, because it 
is only influenced by the situation of the galleys, however, the 
(B) movement must be done before the (C) movement, if not so, 
Sparta will block the way through Boiotia and Athens will have 
to seek other type of (B) movement (in this case, he could easily 
solve it with a sea movement through the Kyklades).
6. Move Galleys (-1 Prestige)
It is guided by the same rules than the hoplites land move-
ment but in this case is between sea spaces.
The galleys move from one or several sea spaces to only 
one space, without exceeding the round capacity (3, 4, 
5, 5) in the destination and without crossing through sea 
spaces controlled by the opposite player (in which he has 
more cubes than you). The enemy can control the origin 
and destination sea spaces because you are not crossing it.
For this movement, you have to follow the broken lines 
corresponding to the sea route, taking into account that who 
owns Korinthos can move directly galleys from the Ionio 
A
B
C

- 9 -
Pelagos to the Kyklades and vice versa (going through the 
diolkos of the isthmus). 
As well as it happened when moving hoplites, this move-
ment is not simultaneous, and you shall take into account 
the order in which the galleys move because the movement 
could be influenced by the other player blockades in the 
sea spaces that the galleys must cross. 
7. Besiege Polis (-1 Prestige)
A polis is besieged through the hoplites that you already 
have in the territory where that polis lies.
You can besiege a neutral polis (placed above the upper 
section of the board) or owned by the other player if you:
• Have as many hoplites as its fortification or more (although 
its current population were greater or lower). This number 
appears circled in each polis in the map, and on its own card.
• Control that territory by having more hoplites than the 
opponent.
There are two poleis with a fortification of 4 (Korinthos 
and Syrakousai), that can not be besieged in the first round, 
because a player can not have in the territory the necessary 
hoplites to besiege them. 
Declaring the siege, if the polis has a fortification (and base 
population) greater than 1, the besieging player rolls the 4 
sided die. If, at least, he matches with the result the number 
of the polis fortification, the player achieves the siege and he 
obtains that polis. Therefore, if a polis has a fortification of 1, 
it is not required to roll the die, and the player automatically 
obtains the polis.
You can not besiege the capital of the opponent. 
If the siege is not achieved, because the die roll does not 
match or exceed the fortification of the polis, the player 
who tried the siege loses 1 hoplite and, if the polis is not 
neutral (that is, it is owned by a player), that polis loses 1 po-
pulation point. If the polis, belonging to a player, only had 
1 population point, this is lost also, but instead of remaining 
in 0 population points, the polis decides to become neutral. 
That involves the frightened people deciding to overthrow 
the governor and to withdraw from the Poleis League.
The player that failed in his attempt to besiege and conquer 
the polis, will be able to try again the siege when he has the 
hoplites required (if he does not have them yet), and as long 
as the new attempt shall not be in his same turn (it would be 
the same kind of action). 
If the siege is achieved, the player receives the polis (with 
its completed projects or in progress if it had them) and as 
many Prestige points as its fortification / base population 
points. Also, if the enemy Proxenos were in the polis, he 
would be captured by the besieging player, removing the 
pawn from the board and becoming his hostage until he 
might be released. If the polis is neutral, he receives it with 
its base population and if it is an enemy polis, he receives it 
with its current population replacing the population cubes 
by the same amount of cubes of the player who executed 
the siege. Afterwards, he shall put a disc from his color in 
the polis in the map (replacing the opposite player’s disc if 
he owned the polis).
Example 1: The Athenian player tries to conquer the neutral polis 
of Naupaktos through siege in the round type 3. To that end, he 
moves three hoplites to Thessalia (because there are two Spartan 
hoplites and he must exceed that number) spending 1 Prestige 
point. Paying another Prestige point (making a total of 2) executes 
the siege that he achieves automatically, because it is not necessary 
to roll the die in this case (fortification of 1 in Naupaktos). The 
Athenian player takes the Polis card from the upper section of the 
board and places it in his area of play, afterwards, he receives 1 
Prestige point (as many points as its fortification, that is, 1).
Example 2: Let’s suppose that in the next round, type 4, the 
Athenian player wants to conquer the neutral polis of Thebai 
through siege. He moves three hoplites, that is, the minimum 
and necessary to besiege a polis like Thebai, which has 3 base 
population / fortification points and in which territory there are 
not Spartan Hoplites. Both actions already suppose 1 prestige 
point less for moving and another additional point for besieging. 
The Athenian player rolls the four sided die and he obtains a 
2... Not only he does not achieve the siege but he also loses a 
hoplite. In his next turn, he decides to move another two hoplites 
to the region of Boiotia to reinforce the hoplites already present 
and to try again the siege and, consequently, he spends another 
2 prestige points (1 for the movement of the hoplites, and 1 for 
trying the siege). He rolls the die and he obtains a 3... Therefore, 
he achieves the siege, he draws the Thebai Polis card and he 
receives 3 Prestige points by taking the fortification of that Polis.
If the player had conquered Thebai in the first attempt, or he 
would have moved more hoplites, he would not have obtained 
negative balance of prestige and he would have avoided the loss 
of 1 hoplite.
Example 3: Let’s suppose that in the round type 5, the Spartan 
player chooses to try conquering Thebai through siege and he 
moves four hoplites to Boiotia. Let’s suppose too that Thebai has a 
current population of 2 and there are two Athenian hoplites in the 
territory. In this case, it is irrelevant that Thebai has a population 
of 2, because what it counts is its fortification being 3, on the other 
hand, he achieves to exceed the amount of Athenian hoplites and 
because the circumstances don’t lead to a battle happening at the 
end of the turn (minimum of 8 hoplites and, in this case, there 
would have been 6 among the two players). The Spartan player 
spends 2 Prestige points (movement and siege), and he rolls the 
die, obtaining a 4. It means that he seizes the control of Thebai 
from the Athenian player and he receives 3 Prestige points too.

If he had failed the throw, the Spartan player would have lost 
a hoplite and Thebai would have lost 1 population point. If the 
Spartan player continues stubbornly to besiege Thebai, he could 
try it again in his next turn. In fact, he already had the necessary 
hoplites for doing that (3), and they would be continuing to exceed 
the amount of Athenian hoplites (if the Athenian player does not 
move more hoplites in his turn), but he should take into account 
that if he fails the throw, Thebai would return to neutrality, because 
it would run out of population (0). 
8. Collection (-1 Prestige)
The player that has the support of part of the population, in 
other words, the player who owns, at least, one polis in the 
region, could demand to his peasants part of the goods they 
produce. These are showed in the territory squares in the left 
section of the board.
By means of collecting you will obtain a quantity of goods 
according to the distribution of hoplites that he carries out. 
To do this, the player will place, as he or she whises, the 
cubes in the numbered boxes, providing that if he or she 
places several in a same line, the player must begin by the 
leftmost box (the one with a number 1) and going on with 
the following boxes at the right in the same line.
He or she obtains the quantity of goods that is marked by the 
last cube of each line. Thus, the player can obtain 1/3/6/10/15 
goods of one type with 1/2/3/4/5 hoplites addressed to the 
plundering of the peasants, all of that depending on each 
region availability and the round in which it is collected 
(because there could be a maximum of 3, 4 or 5 hoplites in 
a region in each one of the 4 rounds). 
In the home regions of each player, Lakedaimon for the 
Spartan player and Attika for the Athenian player, when 
a player collects, he or she does not lose Prestige. Both terri-
tories boxes are darkened and the correspondent symbols 
appear on the identifiying color of the upper left corner.
When the player finishes the collection, the player returns 
the hoplite cubes to the territory in the map and he puts 
a disc from his color in the territory box (at the left of the 
board, in its upper right corner), indicating that the region 
has been plundered and that nothing else can be collected 
during this round.
Achaia is the only region without polis in it, so it can be 
collected by the first player to do so.
In Sikelia up to 15 wine or oil resources can be collected, and up 
to 6 wheat resources.
In the next example, Sparta collects in Sikelia during the third 
round (5 ). Having the maximum number of hoplites (5), with 
three of them, he can obtain 6 wine resources, and with the other 
two, he can obtain 3 oil resources (A). Assigning all to oil, he 
would obtain 15 oil resources (B). After he chooses between the 
different collection options, the player has to place a disc in the 
upper right corner of the territory box, indicating that Sikelia has 
already been plundered. 
POLITICAL ACTIONS
9. Trade
The silver and wheat are two resources really necessary in the 
game but they are usually scarce and difficult to obtain by 
means of Collection. When your Poleis League is growing, 
you must trade to keep the poleis related to your cause.
In order to trade in one of the five markets (Illyria, Thraki, 
Euxeinos Pontos, Persis or Aigyptos), the player must have 
a free sea route from his trade port (see colored area in the 
section “Board”, on page 4) to the corresponding market, in 
other words, without crossing sea spaces controlled by the 
other player with his galleys. 
The trading port of the Athenian player (belonging to 
Athenai) is considered to be placed in the Kyklades, being 
that space the first crossed sea of all routes started by the 
merchants. So, if this sea space were controlled by Sparta, 
the Athenian player would not have free route to any market 
because the merchants could not even leave the port. 
The Spartan trade port (belonging to the Pylos and Gytheion 
poleis) is placed between the Ionio Pelagos and the Myrtöo 
Pelagos, and the player could choose in which of the two sea 
spaces he starts the merchant’s route. If neither of the two 
poleis (Pylos and Gytheion) is owned by Sparta, his player 
will not be able to trade.
The movement of the merchant follows the broken lines of 
a sea route, taking into account that the player who controls 
Korinthos might move them directly from the Ionio Pelagos 
to the Kyklades and vice versa. The merchants does not 
block among them nor the galleys, but the galleys can block 
merchants if the opposite player have more of them in a sea 
space, controlling it.
The goods of each market are read in vertical: the market 
demands from you the goods whose symbol is shown in 
the upper box: metal, wood, wine, oil (or silver, because 
in the game all sets of material to pay, as it happens when 
creating units or beginning a project, could be replaced 
by silver) and in exchange it offers the amount of wheat or 
silver (depending on its color) shown in the lower box. 
- 10 -
A
B

Thus, for example, the Persis Market 
has 3 goods: they demand wine in 
exchange for 3 wheats, oil in exchange 
of 4 wheats, and wine in exchange for 
5 silvers. 
To trade, the player moves (if he has a free route) one single 
merchant’s ship, that he has in his trade port, to one of the 
loads of goods that are free (without being already occupied 
by other merchant) and available.
The loads are available depending on the offered amount and 
the current round. In the first round (type 3), you can only 
trade with the 3 offered amount, in the second round (type 
4), they become available the 4 amount too, and from the 
third round, the 5 amount, so all goods become available. 
In the round type 3, it will only be 
available the first load, in the type 4, they 
will be available the 2 from the left, and 
in the two last rounds (types 5α and 
5β), all of them will be available. 
The merchants don’t occupy the loads from left to right, they 
might choose which one they want from the loads that are 
free and available that round.
The player always receives the amount of the offered good in 
the load’s lower space, that now is occupied by the merchant 
and he chooses if he trades it by bartering the goods in 
demand in the market (upper space) or paying silver. Taking 
into account that he can not trade silver in exchange for silver.
If you choose to trade by barter, the amount of goods in 
demand that you must give is what results of crossing the 
column in which the goods value is placed (see the cube) 
and the row according to the kind of load traded (3, 4 or 5) 
in the Market Value box (upper left section of the board).
The Athenian player wants to trade with one of his merchants 
in the Persia second load (oil in exchange for 4 wheats). It is 
unoccupied and this is the second round (type 4), so that load 
is also available. He checks that he has a free sea route from his 
trade port: Sparta does not block the exit from Kyklades Islands 
(1 Spartan galley against 2 Athenian galleys) nor the passage 
through the Nóties Sporádes (neither player blocks because there 
is a tie in galleys).
The Athenian player places his merchant 
over the second load and he checks how 
many oil he must give to receive 4 wheat 
resources from Persia.
As he is trading by barter, he crosses the column in which is the oil 
value (see the cube) and the row according to the kind of load (4). 
The result is that he must give 5 oil resources to receive 4 wheat re-
sources. The player will adjust his new values on his player board. 
After a barter, the market value of a good, that you have 
given, is depreciated, because it loses part of its value when 
it is more used in the exchanges. The player rolls the four 
sided die and moves the cube of the corresponding good 
to the right as many spaces as the result. 
Finishing the previous example, the player rolls the 4 sided die. 
The result is 2. Therefore, he devalues the oil value and he moves 
the cube two spaces to the right.
Instead of making a barter, to receive wheat, you can pay 
with silver. So you must give as many silver as wheat you 
receive. Both goods have always the same market value 
so they don’t fluctuate. In the example explained above, the 
Athenian player had paid 4 silver resources in exchange for the 
4 wheat resources. 
- 11 -

- 12 -
If the player has paid with silver, the good value that this 
market demanded changes too, but in this case, the good 
value is increased because it is not used in the exchange. 
The player rolls the four sided die twice and he moves the 
corresponding cube as many spaces as the bigger result of 
the two rolls to the left. 
The player that owns Epidamnos will be able to trade with 
Illyria and who owns Abdera will be able to trade with 
Thraki. In that situation, the player does not have to check 
if he has a free sea route to the corresponding market, he 
just moves his merchant to the unoccupied and available 
load that he wishes. 
The merchant token always remains over the load space for 
the remaining of the round, showing that the merchant has 
already traded and that the load space is occupied. It will be 
recovered when finishing the round. 
10. Move Proxenos
The Proxenos was the diplomat that served as ambassador in 
the ancient Greece. The important poleis appointed famous 
citizens where they wanted to exert their influence, and to 
that end the poleis provided them with economic resources.
He is represented by a pawn in the map and always moves 
from polis to polis.
His movement can consist of two kinds to choose from: 
land or sea movement, as well as the hoplites movement. 
In the sea movement he embarks/disembarks at the sea the 
polis' arrow points to.
As it can be checked in the map, there are two poleis 
which can only be reached by sea movement: Epidamnos 
and Abdera (because they don’t have territory where the 
Proxenos might travel to them) and on the other hand, 
Thebai and Sparta can only be reached by land movement 
(they don’t have port).
Moving his proxenos, the player must assume the cost of 
bribing all the units (hoplites or triremes, never both) of the 
opponent that are in the regions that the diplomat crosses in 
his movement between poleis, including the origin and the 
destination territory or sea. Each opposite unit that is bribed 
costs 1 silver resource, which is not received by the other 
player but it is considered that the own hoplites or galleys 
keep the silver.
The proxenos has the advantage of being the only unit able 
to cross territories controlled by the opposite player.
A same polis can only house the proxenos of one player.
If a siege of a polis housing the proxenos is completed, 
he will be captured. Therefore, keep in mind the situation 
of your diplomat and try to avoid that he might be easily 
captured. 
Moving the Proxenos, you have to take into account that his 
more obvious way to move does not have to be the cheapest 
way, and you should also remember, that if he is in a polis 
with port, the chance of choosing among land movement 
(bribing hoplites) or sea movement (bribing the crew of the 
galleys).
The Athenian player wants to move his Proxenos from Naupaktos 
to Potidaia. The obvious way is by land, crossing the two regions, 
the origin one and the destination one (see picture above). In 
this movement, he should pay 4 silver resources for bribing the 
4 Spartan hoplites. But, in this case, he discovers that, by means 
of a sea movement (see figure on the next page), he manages to 
arrive paying only 1 silver resource bribing the Spartan trireme in 
the Myrtöo Pelagos.
11. Release Proxenos
Each player can only have one Proxenos, so if he is captured 
by the opponent by seizing a polis, he can only be recovered 
releasing him.
The cost for releasing him is 2 silvers from the player’s stock 
as ransom, amount that is paid to the player who captured 
him. The pawn of the Proxenos is placed again in the player’s 
capital, becoming available.

- 13 -
12. Instigate Civil War
The proxenos can instigate a Civil War (called “stasis” in 
the ancient Greece) in a polis in which he currently is. To 
do this, he must bribe with silver the citizens able to stir 
up the political situation and to cause the conflict. 
The Civil War can be instigated in a neutral polis or in a 
polis controlled by the other player. In both cases, the polis 
with its population will join the player who instigated it.
The silver amount for the bribe is:
• If the polis is neutral: 2 x base population.
• If the polis is controlled by the opposite player: 3 x current 
population. (The silver is not received by the other player)
The polis in which you instigated a Civil War, is now yours 
with the population and their projects in progress or already 
completed. Take the polis card, remove the cubes that the 
other player had (if it was not neutral) and place the cubes 
from your color next to it, according to the corresponding 
population. After, put a disc from your color in the polis in 
the map (replacing the opposite player’s disc if he owned the 
polis).
You can not instigate a Civil War in the capital of the other 
player.
By means of this action, the player receives as many Prestige 
points as the number of population the player has paid for.

BATTLE
After finishing the second action of a player turn, you must 
always check if a battle takes place.
It happens automatically (it is not an action) if, at the end of 
the turn, both players have 8 or more units in a same region 
(territory or sea).
It may be the case in which a player has passed and 8 or 
more units coexist in one or more regions. On this assump-
tion, the player who has not passed could keep carrying out 
actions and when he finishes with all of them and passes, 
the battle will take place (so, even if the opponent has 
passed). If after this battle there are still 8 or more units in 
a region no more battles take place until the next round.
The battle consists of assaults and it finishes by imperative 
when the deck runs out of combat cards. 
Whenever a battle takes place, the combat cards deck will 
be used. After shuffling it thoroughly, it is placed near the 
board and the players draw as many cards as cubes (hoplites 
or galleys) have in the region. So, for example, if a player has 
5 hoplites in the round 5α, he draws 5 cards.
The first player to play a card, during an assault, is called 
the attacker and the other player, the defender. In a land 
battle the first attacker will always be Sparta, whereas 
Athens will be the first in a naval battle.
In each assault, the attacker chooses 2 combat cards from 
his hand and places them face-up in front of him, in the 
area of play. The defender, after seeing them, chooses 2 
cards from his hand and places them face-up right opposite 
to the enemy cards, facing one by one.
Finally, the assault is resolved comparing first the formation 
and then the maneuver of each card. There are two possi-
bilities:
1. If the defender has not been able to match the formation 
of the card played by the attacker, he loses 1 cube and the 
attacker wins the Prestige that is given by the maneuver of 
his card.
2. If the defender matches the formation content in the card 
played by the attacker, he does not lose any cubes, but the 
attacker may win the difference in Prestige among both 
maneuvers (if his card has more Prestige).
After each assault, the 4 cards played are discarded and they 
are not returned to the deck until the battle ends. The 
players change role, so the attacker of the previous assault 
becomes the defender and the defender of the previous 
assault becomes the attacker. 
Each player takes the needed cards from the deck to have 
again as many cards in his hand as cubes remaning in the 
battle (So, for example, if a player has suffered a loss of 1 cube in 
the previous assault he will need to take only 1 card). The same 
steps explained in the previous paragraphs are repeated, and 
the assaults are repeated subsequently until the battle ends.
The battle ends in the following assumptions: 
1. The deck does not have enough cards for both players when 
they must draw cards to begin a new assault.
2. A player, attacker or defender, retreats paying 1 Prestige 
point to the opponent for cowardice. In this case, the battle 
ends immediately. This option can only be executed by the 
player with intention of retreating before cards are dealt for 
an incoming assault.
3. The defender has less than 2 cubes after an assault is played. 
When the battle finishes, the cubes remaining after the 
battle are still in the contested region. If a case occurs in 
which 8 or more cubes are still in the contested region and 
the opposite player does not move units from that region to 
another, a battle would take place again after the next turn.
There are two special cards:
• Mercenaries: It is a wild card because the mercenaries 
are able to match any formation played by the opponent 
(except the Salpinx Call card). The mercenaries can not 
cause casualties, when its card is played by the attacker, the 
defender can match it with any card from his hand.
• Salpinx Call: There is only one copy of this card in the deck, 
so if played by the attacker the defender won’t be able to 
match it (what entails the loss of 1 cube). But the player who 
attacked using the Salpinx Call always loses 1 Prestige point. 
- 14 -
Combat Card Description:
Formation: The illustration of the combat card determines the 
formation played by the attacker. The defender will try to match the 
formations played by the attacker with the same type of formation.
There are 6 land formations: Phalanx, Cavalry, Archers, Peltasts, 
Mercenaries and Salpinx Call. In the same manner, there are 6 
naval formations: Elite Trireme, Trireme, Bireme, Triacontor, 
Mercenaries and Salpinx Call. 
Maneuver: Its value ranging from -1 to 2 determines the Prestige 
than can be obtained by the attacker in an assault. That Prestige 
would also depend on the cards played by the defender.
There are 5 types of land maneuver: Othismos (2), Advance 
(1), Hold (0), Shooting (0) and Ambush (-1). The types of 
naval maneuvers are 4: Diekplous (2), Periplous (1), Kyklos 
(0) and Ambush (-1). 

- 15 -
Example 1 (land battle):
The attacker plays Phalanx (Othismos) and Archers (Shooting). The 
defender plays Phalanx (Advance) and Archers (Shooting). Therefore, 
the defender matches both cards played by the attacker, and he does 
not lose any cube. However, the attacker wins 1 Prestige point because 
his Phalanx (Othismos) card has a maneuver of greater prestige than 
Phalanx (Advance), that is, 2-1 = 1.
Example 2 (naval battle):
The attacker plays Trireme (Kyklos) and Salpinx Call. The defender 
plays Trireme (Periplous) and Elite Trireme (Diekplous). In the case of 
Triremes, the defender does not lose any cubes and the attacker does not 
win prestige (his card has a lower prestige maneuver, that is, 0 against 
1). In the case of Salpinx Call, the attacker causes the loss of one cube, 
because this card can not be matched, but the attacker loses 1 Prestige 
point by the game of this ambush card.
Example 3 (land battle):
The attacker plays Phalanx (Othismos) and Archers (Advance). The 
defender plays Mercenaries in front of the Phalanx and Cavalry (Advance) 
in front of the attacking Archers. The defender achieves to match the attac-
king Phalanx because his Mercenaries act like a wild card, but the attacker 
wins 2 Prestige points because the Prestige of the maneuver was greater 
(2-0 = 2). However, the defender does not achieve to match Archers (he 
played Cavalry), so he loses a cube and, also, the attacker wins 1 Prestige 
point, that is, the number content in his card.
2-1=1
-1
(because
it is lower)
the defender suffers
a loss of 1 cube
2-0=2
the defender suffers
a loss of 1 cube

- 16 -
END OF THE ROUND 
PHASES
Both players carry out each one of the following 6 phases 
when they finish the round (when the last player that 
remains in play passes). Alternately and starting by the 
player who passed first during his turn.
1. Projects
All the projects in progress at the polis possessed by both 
players are finished and they award them with the specified 
Prestige (only the immediate, not the “for posterity” 
Prestige that is between brackets).
The project card is placed underneath the polis card and 
this is turned to its normal position. This also happens if it 
is placed over a neutral polis after a siege (in this case it 
doesn't give immediate Prestige).
As we saw in the “Begin Project” action (pages 6 & 7), Socrates 
give 4 Prestige points to the Athenian player at the end of the 
round in this phase. The 2 “for posterity” (between brackets) 
will be obtained at the end of the game. The project is placed 
underneath the polis card and this is turned, leaving again visible 
its name in the upper part.
2. Supply
In order feed his Polis League, the player spends as many 
wheat resources as the total population he has in the cards.
If he does not have enough wheat, he must make up the 
resources that he does not have, losing Prestige (in the same 
amount), by means of returning allied poleis to neutrality 
(so he has to feed less population) or combining both meth-
ods.
The poleis that return to neutrality are placed in the upper 
section of the board, over their corresponding name, and 
they do with all the projects built under their cards and 
without population cubes, because a neutral polis always 
has its base population.
3. Growth
In this phase, the player decides if he wants to invest on 
wheat (if any left after the previous phase) to increase his 
population.
The city planning of each polis is unique and certain poleis 
are capable to house more population than others in order 
to have a more dynamic demography. Both aspects are 
represented by the maximum growth and the maximum 
population (see “Main Terms” section, on page 3).
For each wheat resource that the player spends he can add 
1 population cube to his poleis, without surpassing the 
maximum growth (maximum cubes that can be added in 
this round) nor the maximum population in any case.
In Sparta, the player 
can spend up to 3 wheat 
resources to grow 3 popula-
tion cubes per round in this 
phase, without surpassing 
the maximum of 8 cubes.
4. Megalopolis
A well managed polis which achieves to house a big popu-
lation causes the admiration from the Greek people.
In this phase, every polis that exceeds its base population 
contributes 1 Prestige point to the player that owns it.
In the previous example, if Sparta reaches 5, 6, 7 or 8 population 
cubes (>4 of base population), it contributes the player with 1 
Prestige point.
If it is the end of the fourth round (5β), it is not necessary 
to follow the remaining phases (5 and 6). The players will 
do as it is explained in “End of the Game” (page 17).
5. Goods Adjustment
The difficulty to storage and the loss of quality of the 
perishable goods in the ancient world make that both 
players must reduce their wine, oil and wheat stocks to half 
(rounding up). 
6. Phoros
The Phoros was a tax that allied poleis paid periodically to 
their protector polis.
In this phase, the player decides if he invests Prestige to 
demand a monetary tax from his allied Poleis League. 
For each Prestige point spent, the player would receive 1 
silver resource.
Max.
Growth
Max.
Pop.
½ =

- 17 -
SETUP FOR THE NEXT ROUND
• The cube that marks the present round is moved one space 
forward.
• All the discs of the territory boxes that marked the collection 
are removed.
• Both players return their merchants placed over the loads to 
their trade ports.
• All the Projects that remain in the corresponding section of 
the board are removed and you have to place the following 
3 from the stock. 
• The upper event from the corresponding deck (according 
to the round that is about to begin) is revealed, applying 
the rules explained in the “Game Start and Course of the 
Game” section (on page 5).
• The player with less Prestige starts the new round with his 
two first actions.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends immediately in two ways:
1. In the moment during the game when a player loses his 
capital (Sparta or Athenai). This possibility can only happen 
when a player can not “Supply” his capital (Phase 2 of the 
End of the Round), since a capital can not be besieged or a 
Civil War can not be incited in it.
2. If after the six End of the Round phases a player does 
not have Prestige, he loses the game immediately, being 
condemned to ostracism (ostrakismos)... and to clear up 
the game until you decide to play again.
• If neither of the two previous conditions are given, the game 
ends after the 4th phase (“Megalopolis”) after finishing the 
last round (5β).
The final score is set by the addition of three elements of 
the game:
• The total population that the poleis, allied to a player, house. 
• The player's current Prestige. 
• And the Prestige “for posterity” that is awarded by the 
completed Projects in his poleis (to do that, he must reveal 
the Project cards that are placed under their poleis).
The player with the greater amount in the sum of these 
three values is the winner of “Polis: Fight for the 
Hegemony.” If there is a tie, it is resolved in favour of the 
player that has a greater amount of the 6 goods (metal, 
wood, wine, oil, silver and wheat).
THANKS 
Thanks to my beloved wife Lorena for so many playtests and her 
patience, to Nacho for getting the show on the road and helping 
me so much, to Javi for trusting in my game, to Marek for giving 
Polis such an amazing look, like if it was just discovered among 
ancient amphoras, to Iván for his wonderful and altruist effort in 
the first version of the board, to José Carlos (Wkr) that wise little 
grumpy who saw the way that prototype should take, to Ángel 
(Bru) for his pertinent comments and proposals, to Javier who 
helped a lot as well as being the first to defeat the creator of the 
game in his first game, to Iñaki (Lev Mishkin) for offering himself 
to a very long playtest in Granollers, to Riccardo (Talenor) for his 
enthusiasm and ideas and to Stephane for his recording and 
support. And to you who have trusted in Polis and are reading 
these lines. Thanks.
Fran Díaz
CREDITS
Concept & Design: Fran Díaz.
Graphic Design, Illustrations, Box, Rules, Editing: Marek 
Rutkowski.
Combat Card Illustrations: Walter Velez.
Game Producer: Antonio Catalán 
Writing: Fran Díaz, Ignacio Góngora.
English Version: Quique Porcar, Fran Díaz, Ignacio Góngora.
Playtesting: Juan (ElMonográfico), Victor, Lorena Monge, José 
Carlos (Wkr), Ángel (Bru), Javier Clavería, Iñaki (Lev Mishkin), 
Riccardo Pellitteri (Talenor).
Thanks to: Quique Porcar, Juan (ElMonográfico), Club 
Dreadnought Valencia, Stephane Cittadino, Riccardo Pellitteri 
(Talenor), Alexander Boucharelis (Kastrologos), Ingo Griebsch 
(D0gb0t), Simon Rockenfelder. 
Published by Asylum Games SL.
Residencial L´Alberca, calle Algeciras número 8, 03520, Polop de 
la Marina (Alicante).
www.asylumgameseditorial.com / info@asylumgameseditorial.com
Manufactured in Spain by Games & Co S.C.P.
© 2012 Asylum Games SL, all rights reserved.
Not suitable for children under 36 months. 
Fight for the Hegemony

- 18 -
In this conflict, which happened after the Peloponnesian War, 
they faced, on one side, Sparta and Syrakousai, and on the other, 
Athenai, Thebai, Korinthos, and Argos, Alliance that is known 
as the Synedrion of Corinth.
After the Peloponnesian War, Sparta had obtained the support of 
almost all the Poleis, as well as the support of the Persian Empire. 
However, only Sparta received the recognition, bounty and taxes 
from the defeated Athenian Empire. To make things worse, the 
years that followed until the end of the conflict, Sparta embarked 
in new conquests like Elis and Ionia, that lead the other Poleis to 
turn against these campaigns. The attack to the satrapy of Phrygia 
Hellespontine (present Turkey), ruled by Pharnabazus II, caused 
Persia to support the uprising of the Greek Poleis against Sparta. 
The conflict began this way in the year 395 BC, with the battle 
of Haliartus. Boiotia incited his Allies of Locris to fight against 
Phocis, allied to Sparta, and in turn, Boiotia formed an alliance 
with Athens. Korinthos and Argos joined later to that alliance.
The war lasted eight years and it ended with the Peace of Antalci-
das (387 BC), that meant a treaty recognizing the independence 
of all the Greek Poleis under the safeguard of Sparta. Deep down 
and behind this treaty was the hand of Persia, which, after the 
initial support to Athens, changed sides and began to support 
Sparta by fear of the Athenian resurgence.
This scenario is designed in order that the players familiarize themselves with the combat system introduced in Polis: Fight for the 
Hegemony, with the trade and the rest of the actions, as well as the valued Prestige, avoiding simple elements like Events or 
Projects. In the other hand, this scenario could serve for experienced players as well, because it stresses and emphasizes the war 
conflict among them that could take place in any turn (being a round type 5), the movement and blockades. 
SCENARIOS
Scenario 1 Corinthian War (395 BC - 387 BC)
Syrakousai
Thebai
Argos
Korinthos
Spartan Hoplites: 1 in Akarnania, 1 in Thessalia, 1 
in Makedonia, 1 in Achaia, 3 in Sikelia, 
2 in Messenia, and 4 in Lakedaimon.
Spartan Galleys: 2 in Ionio Pelagos, 2 in Myrtöo 
Pelagos, 1 in Kyklades, and 1 in Nóties Sporades.
2 Merchants in Sparta Trade Port.
Spartan Proxenos in Pydna.
Athenian Hoplites: 3 in Boiotia, 3 in Attika,
1 in Arcadia, and 2 in Megaris.
Athenian Galleys: 3 in Kyklades,
and 3 in Thrakiko Pelagos.
2 Merchants in Athens Trade Port.
Atenían Proxenos in Thebai.
(6)
(6)
(7)
(5)
(4)
1 round Scenario type 5 / Without Events / Without Projects / With Trade
They face (between brackets the population which the poleis start with):

- 19 -
After the Thirty Years’ Peace, the conflict that started to emerge 
between Korinthos and Athenai in incidents like Korkyra or Poteid-
aia culminated with the Spartan support to his ally, Korinthos. 
It broke out in that manner the first phase of the Peloponnesian 
War’s second episode, that is called “the Archidamian War” (for 
Archidamus II of Sparta) and by which Sparta blockaded Attika 
with his land forces, although Athenai avoided the blockade mostly 
thanks to his naval predominance, ignoring the Spartan siege to 
a great extent. However, Athenai could not avoid the plague that 
decimated the Polis and between the casualties it was emphasized 
the death of his great strategos Pericles. 
It was then that Athenai went onto the offensive and they reached, 
after that, the brief Peace of Nicias (421 BC), leaving great losses 
on both sides and a tie’s feeling.
The second phase of the war had as trigger the Athenian expedition 
to Sikelia (415 BC), which although had the pretext to support the 
Polis of Selinunte in his conflict with Syrakousai, the real was the 
yearned total control of the island and, particularly, the control of 
an extremely important Polis: Syrakousai, allied to Sparta. But the 
expedition ended in disastrous consequences due to its generals' 
indecisiveness. This fact joined to new Spartan blockade over Attika 
lead to the collapse of Athinai, although this collapse was apparent.
Indeed, Athenai recovered herself... above all, thanks to the ship-
building of a new fleet which defeated the Spartans in the battles of 
Kyzikos and Arginusae. The mistake of Athinai, however, was to 
execute her admirals by the minor victory in her last battle. Thus 
Athinai lost her best leaders, allowing Sparta to take advantage 
of this circumstance, and thanks to her Navarchus Lysander, who 
destroyed the Athenian fleet in the battle of Aegospotamos (405 
BC), and through the siege of Athenai, they reached the Spartan 
final victory. 
Scenario 2 Second Peloponnesian War (431 – 404 BC)
Chios
Abdera
Samos
Naupaktos
Korkyra
Chalkis
Poteidaia
Thebai
Korinthos
Spartan Hoplites: 1 in Makedonia, 1 in Megaris, 
2 in Sikelia, 2 in Messenia, 3 in Lakedaimon.
Spartan Galleys: 2 in Ionio Pelagos, 2 in Mirtöo 
Pelagos, 1 in Kyklades, 1 in Nóties Sporades.
2 Merchants in Sparta Trade Port.
Spartan Proxenos in Syrakousai.
Athenian Hoplites: 1 in Akarnania, 
3 in Makedonia, 2 in Attika.
Athenian Galleys: 3 in Kyklades,
1 in Nóties Sporades, 3 in Thrakiko Pelagos.
2 Merchants in Athens Trade Port.
Atenían Proxenos in Pydna.
(4)
(5)
(7)
2 rounds Scenario type 5 / With Events / With Projects / With Trade.
They face (between brackets the population which the poleis start with):
Projects:
Socrates, Democritus, Temple of Zeus, Theater with Epskenion, 
Statue of Venus, Festival of Demeter, Nemean Games. 

» Initial Setups: 
Pages 4, 18, and 19. 
» Game Start and Course of the Game:
Place Projects (3).
Play an Event card.
The player with less prestige begins.
The players carry out two different actions to one another. 
» Development Actions: 
1. Create Hoplites: Only in one polis. 1 metal (or 1 silver) per 
unit.
• Attention to the Hoplites limit in the territory.
2. Create Galleys: Only in one polis. 1 wood (or 1 silver) per 
unit. 
• Attention to the Galleys limit in the sea.
3. Create Merchants: Only in a single trade polis. 1 wood (or 
1 silver) per unit, and place 1 ship in the trade port.
4. Begin Project: If the Polis is able to start that Project, the 
cost must be paid.
» Military Actions (all costs -1 Prestige):
5. Move Hoplites: The destination of the hoplites must be the 
same. The movement is not simultaneous (one by one), 
without crossing any region controlled by the opponent. 
6. Move Galleys: The destination of the galleys must be the 
same. The movement is not simultaneous (one by one), 
without crossing seas controlled by the other player.
7. Besiege Polis: If the hoplites control the territory and there 
are as many as the Polis fortification value, roll the die.
• If the die roll matches or exceeds the fortification value, the 
Siege is achieved. You receive Prestige = Fortification. If the 
Proxenos is inside, he is captured. 
• Otherwise, the player loses 1 hoplite and if it is an enemy 
polis, it loses 1 population.
8. Collection: According to the hoplites distribution in the 
territory boxes. A disc is placed. Collecting in your capital´s 
region does not cost Prestige.
» Political Actions:
9. Trade: You can only move one merchant from your trade 
port to a free and available load without crossing seas 
controlled by the opponent.
• If the player exchanges the goods in demand for wheat or 
silver, he/she rolls the die and depreciates (to the right) the 
good’s value. 
• If the player pays the offered wheat with silver, he/she rolls 
the die twice and the non-exchanged good’s value increases 
(to the left) as many spaces as the bigger result. 
10. Move Proxenos: The movement may be by land or by sea. 
If he begins, crosses or ends in regions with enemy units, 
he must pay 1 silver per unit (the opposite player does not 
receive it).
11. Release Proxenos: Pay 2 silver to the opponent and place 
him in your capital.
12. Instigate Civil War: With the Proxenos and paying with 
silver:
 
2 x base population (neutral polis).
 
3 x current population (enemy polis).
 
Win Prestige = Population.
» Battle:
If there are 8 or more hoplites/galleys in a region, the battle 
takes place. The attacker begins playing 2 cards. The 
defender tries to match one by one the attacker’s formations. 
• If the defender does not match the formation/s, loses 1 unit 
for every not matched card and the attacker wins the Prestige 
given by his/her maneuver.
• If the defender matches the formation/s, the attacker may win 
as much Prestige as the difference among both maneuvers. 
A new assault begins, and players change role. 
The battle ends when:
1. There are not enough cards for both players.
2. A player retreats from combat paying 1 Prestige to the 
opponent.
3. A player has less than 2 units after an assault.
» End of the Round Phases (each one alternating 
players):
1. Projects: The Projects in progress finish, awarding the 
immediate Prestige.
2. Supply: The player spends as many wheat as the total 
population of his poleis.
3. Growth: The player can increase population with wheat.
4. Megalopolis: For every polis that exceeds its base population 
the player wins 1 Prestige.
5. Goods Adjustment: The oil, wine and wheat are reduced 
to half (rounded up).
6. Phoros: The player may exchange Prestige for silver.
» Setup for the next Round:
1. Move forward the round marker.
2. Remove discs from territory boxes.
3. Recover Merchants.
4. 3 new Projects are placed.
5. A new Event card is drawn and resolved.
6. A new round begins. 
» End of the Game: 
1. A player loses his capital.
2. A player does not have prestige after the End of the Round 
phases.
3. When the round 5β finishes. » Final Score:
• The total population.
• Prestige.
• Prestige for posterity.
PLAYER AID
Polis: Fight for the Hegemony