Martin Ebel
Goal
Goal
The players try to place as many islands on the board as they can 
and then connect them with bridges.
Contents
Contents
80 island squares in 2 colors; 15 gray bridges; 1 board; 1 cloth bag
Preparation:
Preparation:
Place the board between the 2 players. Sort the island squares and bridges by color.
The Alex Randolph start rule: the older player takes 2 of the light island squares and places them on any
2 spaces on the board. The other player now chooses whether he will play with the light or dark island squares.
Begin the game
Begin the game
The player playing with dark island squares places 2 dark island squares on any 2 empty spaces on the board.
Playing the game
Playing the game
Rule 1: placing
On his turn, the player places either
– 2 island squares on any 2 empty spaces on the board
(the two island squares may touch each other, but need not) or
– 1 bridge on 2 of his island squares. 
Rule 2: islands and sand banks
A grouping of 4 island squares of the same color connected to each other, touching
at least along one side is called an island. An island must be exactly 4 island
squares: never more or less. The shape the connected squares take is not important.
A grouping of 1, 2, or 3 island squares of the same color is called a sand bank.
An island may not touch (even diagonally) an island or sand bank of the same color
(touching rule, see example 1). 
Sand banks may touch diagonally (examples 1 and 4). They can be connected to
make an island as long as the result does not touch an island of the same color and
is not larger than 4 squares (examples 2, 3, and 5).
Island and sand banks of different colors may touch (example 6)!
deldel
These 5 island shapes are possible
as well as reflections of these.
or
example 2:
the player may
not connect these
2 sand banks to
make an island,
as it touches the
other island.
example 5: 
the player may
not connect these
2 sand banks as
it makes a
connected group
of 5 tiles.
example 3:
the player
connects
2 sand banks
and makes a
new island.
example 4:
the player
extends a
sand bank.
example 6:
squares of
different colors
touching
without
problems.
example 1:
the touching
rule is followed.
island
sand banks

Rule 3: bridges and blocked spaces
A bridge connects 2 squares of the same color. The space spanned by the bridge must be unoccupied (example 7).
Each square may only hold 1 bridge (example 8). A player may not place a bridge over a square, regardless of its
color (example 8). No square may be placed beneath a bridge. The spaces are blocked (example 9)! A bridge will
block 2 spaces, at most.
Game end
If the player using light squares cannot place 2 squares and cannot or chooses not to build a bridge, the player
using dark squares may take 1 more turn and then the game ends. If the player using dark squares cannot place
2 squares and cannot or chooses not to place a bridge, the game ends immediately.
Scoring and winner!
Each player scores his islands. A solitary island, that is not connected by a
bridge to any other islands or sand banks, scores 1 point. An island connected
to other islands or sand banks scores as shown below:
The player with the most points is the winner! If the players tie, the player with
the most islands is the winner. If players still tie, the player with the most
bridges is the winner. If they still tie, they rejoice in their shared victory! 
Illegal plays
If an illegal play is not detected by the two players within two rounds, so it
could be easily corrected, or if the players judge it cannot be easily corrected,
terminate the game and begin again. 
Island groups connected by bridges 
Points
For information about our entire
line of games, please visit: 
www.riograndegames.com
The publisher and author thank Karl-Heinz Schmiel
for discovering the design at the Göttinger Author
Conference and for test games. The author also
thanks Niek Neuwahl for his encouragement, Alan
Moon for his interest, his gaming friends in Kassel
for countless tests and especially his wife Gudrun
Ebel for her enthusiasm and understanding.
© 2007 Hans im Glück Verlags-GmbH
Have questions, comments, or suggestions?
Write us at: RioGames@aol.com
or: Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
USA
Alex Randolph (*1922 in Arizona – †2004 in Venice) was one of the best-known and most influentiall game
designers. He spoke four languages fluently and lived in many countries throughout the world, before
settling in Venice. Whether children, family, or complex, his games had simple rules, but were never simple to
play or master, having always a special twist. He had over 100 published games, including Sagaland,
Ricochet Robots, and Twixt, which is the inspiration for Ponte del Diavolo.
The author of Ponte del Diavolo Martin Ebel: »I had the honor to know Alex Randolph and considered
him a treasure. After his death, I contemplated the many games he left us, and found my mind was ablaze
with the thought of his classic Twixt. I appreciated the branch problems his game offered, but wanted a
game with less focus on logic, more on intuition, and one that offered players more options. Regardless of
the changes, I consider this game my homage to Alex Randolph.«
example scoring with a smaller board:
light has 4 connected islands: 10 points.
Dark has 2 (over a sand bank) connected
islands (3 points) and 2 solitary islands
(2 points): 5 points.
example 9: 
–
are blocked
spaces.
example 7:
bridges can
be built in
these
3 ways.
example 8: 
the bridge on the left
is not legal as one
square holds 2
bridges; the bridge on
the right is not legal
as it has a square
under it.