RULEBOOK

UNICORN TEARS
Unicorn tears are the purest fluid known in the 
world of magic. Just use a few drops to catalyze 
very powerful magical effects.
Collecting unicorn tears is very easy! They 
are always depressed. Find one, make fun of 
his horn, and prepare for the shower. 
Bring a huge barrel.
OGRE MUCUS
This extremely viscous substance is used to 
thicken compounds otherwise too volatile. 
Always use a mask when you handle it.
Swamp ogres often take a cold. Go to a marsh. 
Bring a big box of paper tissue. Follow the 
sneezing. 
Not recommended for the faint of stomach.
DRAGON SMOKE
The toxic fumes exhaled by these dreadful 
reptiles are often used for their high magical 
reactivity. Beware, never, ever inhale them!
To obtain a dragon’s smoke, poke its nose 
until it gets really, really angry. Collect the 
smoke with a flask. 
Run before he incinerates you.
FAIRY DANDRUFF
A very powerful ingredient. Also used by 
naughty children who refuse to grow up, to 
kidnap other kids and lead them astray.
Catch a fairy and gently brush its hair with a 
small comb. Avoid happy thoughts, or you may 
find yourself smashing through the ceiling in no 
time.
 • INGREDIENT LEGEND •
(Futilis riempitivus)
Dear students,
It’s that time of the year.
Your last year at the Horribilorum Sorcery Academy for Witty Witches and Wizards is almost over, and it’s time for the final exams!
As always, the rules are the same: Take the Ingredients from the Dispenser in the Potions Lab to complete your Potions. Keep in mind that 
the explosions you may trigger can be useful! The use of Potions you brew during this exam is not only allowed, but encouraged! 
Use them wisely to do a quicker and better job, and it will prove your worth as a soon-to-be witch or wizard.
When enough Skill Tokens have been awarded, the exam will end. Remember, though, that in order to win the Student of 
the Year Award, you’ll need to be the one who brewed the most difficult (and valuable) potions!
Good luck!
 Albedus Humblescore 
 Headmaster of the Horribilorum Sorcery Academy

64 Potion tiles of 8 kinds 
(Potions of the same kind have 
the same power icon)
4 Desk boards
1 First Player token
15 Skill tokens
21 Little Help tokens
1 Plastic Dispenser 
(with a drawer to store 
marbles between games)
80 Ingredient marbles 
(in 4 colors, 20 marbles of each color; 
a small bag with some replacement marbles 
is included, in case you lose some)
 • COMPONENTS •
(Presentatio componentibus)
 • THE GAME IN A NUTSHELL •
(De horribilis gamesibus, quickitur)
To brew your Potions, take one Ingredient marble from the Dispenser 
each turn, and make Ingredients of the same color collide to make 
them explode (and take them too)! The bigger the explosions, the 
faster you’ll brew your potions!
Each Potion recipe may need between 4 and 7 Ingredients. They are 
represented by the holes on the Potion tiles themselves. 
Put the marbles of the correct color on your Potion tiles: when all the 
holes have been filled with a marble of the corresponding color, the 
Potion is completed.
Each Potion is worth a certain number of points, which depends on 
the number of Ingredients needed to complete it and the strength of 
the magical power it grants.
When a player completes 3 Potions with the same power, or 5 Potions 
with 5 different powers, they receive a Skill token, which is worth 4 points.
When the required number of Skill tokens have been awarded, the end 
of the game is triggered.
The player with the most points is the winner.

• GAME SETUP •
(Preparatio gameus)
4. From the 6 remaining kinds of Potion 
tiles, take 2 random starter Potion tiles 
(marked with the symbol 
) per player, 
and lay them out in the middle of the table, 
with the Recipe side (the one with the grey 
ribbon) facing up. Starting from the First 
Player and proceeding clockwise, each 
player takes one Starter Potion tile. Once 
all players have taken 1 Potion tile, each 
player takes a second Starter Potion tile, 
starting with the last player and proceeding 
counterclockwise.
5. Each player places their 2 starter Potion 
tiles, with their Recipe side up, on the two 
Bunsen burners of their Desk. This will be 
their Brewing area.
6. Once all the players have chosen their 
Starter Potion tiles, shuffle the remaining 
tiles together and divide them into 5 stacks, 
with the Recipe side facing up.
7. Put all the Ingredient marbles in the “tank” 
of the Dispenser, and make sure they roll 
down to completely fill the 5 tracks of the 
slide (see Refilling the Dispenser, page 7).
8. Place all the Little Help tokens and the Skill 
tokens near the Dispenser. Put some of the 
Skill tokens in a “countdown” stack (see 
End of Game, page 9). The number of Skill 
tokens to be put in this stack depends on the 
number of players (see the following table):
1. Each player receives a Desk board and places 
it in front of himself, leaving some space both 
above and below it.
2. The player that most recently prepared a drink 
is the first player and takes the First Player 
token. This is just a reminder: it won’t change 
during the game. Players play in turns, in 
clockwise order.
3. Take all the Potion tiles and remove 2 
of the 8 different kinds of Potions, either 
randomly or by choice, and put them 
back into the box (they won’t be used 
during the game).
You’re ready to go!
Number of players
“Countdown” stack
4 Skill tokens
5 Skill tokens
6 Skill tokens
For your first few games, I suggest you to leave out 
the Balm of Uttermost Stickiness and 
Filter of Lavamancing potions. Only the 
most talented potion brewers possess the 
necessary expertise to handle them!

• GAME TURN •
(Turnis explanatio)
The red marble is 
taken and starts a 
chain reaction.
No more marbles 
of the same colour 
collide. The chain 
reaction stops.
The three yellow 
marbles collide 
(and explode). 
They are all taken.
Next, the two black 
marbles collide and 
explode. They are 
also taken.
A game of Potion Explosion™ is played in turns. Players take turns in 
clockwise order. During your turn, you MUST choose and take 1 Ingredient 
marble from the Dispenser. This may trigger one or more Explosions. In 
addition, at any point during your turn, you MAY drink one or more of your 
completed Potions AND/OR ask for a Little Help from the Professor.
TAKING INGREDIENTS
(Ingredientorum pick)
As described above, to take an Ingredient from the Dispenser, you simply 
have to choose and take one. You can freely choose any marble that is visible 
on the Dispenser, except for the 9th marble on each slide track (see the 
diagram to the left). This is your regular pick for the turn.
TRIGGERING AN EXPLOSION
(Causatio boom boom)
As you can easily imagine, when an Ingredient marble is removed from the 
slide, all the marbles above it with roll down to fill the gap. This is when an 
Explosion can occur!
If two Ingredient marbles of the same color collide, they explode. When two 
Ingredients explode, all of the Ingredients of that color connected to them 
also explode. You take all of the exploding Ingredients, just like the one you 
directly picked from the Dispenser.
If, after removing all of the exploding Ingredients, there is another collision 
between marbles of the same color, this new collision will trigger another 
Explosion, and you also take all of those exploding Ingredients. If, after that, 
another collision between marbles of the same color occurs, a third Explosion 
will happen, etc. (see the example to the left).
Hi, I am the professor. I talk a lot. What I say is 
generally useful though, so maybe read it, okay?
Not all students notice this at once: when there are three or more 
connected marbles of the same color, if you pick one of those from the 
middle, you still trigger an Explosion by making the others collide! 
That’s a pretty neat move, don’t you think?
Note that those two blue Ingredient marbles in the last step of the 
example—even though involved in a collision—do not explode. An 
Explosion occurs only when two or more marbles of the same color 
collide with each other. Moreover, if you trigger a particularly 
big chain of Explosions, one or more slide tracks can end up being 
partially empty. This is not a problem.

WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM THE PROFESSOR
(Professorum helpus capiendum est)
At any point during your turn (and only once per turn), before or after your 
regular pick, you MAY ask for a Little Help from the Professor—i.e. take a 
Little Help token and 1 Ingredient marble of your choice from the Dispenser. 
When you take an Ingredient marble using the Little Help from the professor, 
you cannot trigger an Explosion, even if you make 2 marbles of the same 
color collide.
For each Little Help token you lose 2 points at the end of the game.
USING THE INGREDIENTS
(Usando marbles ad victoriam)
After taking Ingredients, either with your regular pick, a Little Help from 
the professor, or by drinking a Potion (see Drinking Potions, page 7), you 
will have a number of marbles in hand. To use them, you have the following 
options:
• First, you must place any Ingredients in your hand on the matching empty 
holes of the same color on any Potion tiles brewing on your Desk, if 
possible (a yellow marble goes on a yellow hole, etc.). Once an Ingredient 
has been placed on a Potion tile, it cannot be moved until the Potion is 
complete.
• If you have Ingredient marbles in hand that you cannot place on any Potion 
tile in your Brewing area, you must place those Ingredients in the small 
retort flask on your Desk. This is called your Ingredient Pool. During your 
turn, you may freely move Ingredients between your Pool and your hand.
The Ingredient Pool can only hold up to 3 Ingredients at a time. You can 
only hold Ingredients in your hand until the end of your turn (see End of 
Turn, page 7).
A Little Help 
token
Place marbles on holes 
of the corresponding 
color on your Potion
Example: Heiko has 7 marbles in his hand: 4 red and 3 black. 
He has 2 blue marbles in his Pool left from his last turn. He 
places the 4 red marbles and 1 blue marble taken from his 
Pool on the Potions on his Desk. He wants to keep all the black 
marbles, so he takes the other blue marble from his Pool back 
into his hand and places the 3 black marbles into his Pool. Then 
he ends his turn, and discards the blue marble back into the 
Dispenser.
COMPLETING A POTION
(Completius potionibus)
When all of the holes of a Potion tile have been filled with Ingredients, that 
Potion has been completed. Put all of the marbles from the Potion back into 
the Dispenser (see Refilling the Dispenser, page 7), then flip the Potion tile 
from its front (the Recipe side) to its back (the Completed side) and move it 
in the area below your Desk. This is your Potion area.
Potions are worth a certain number of points at the end of the game (as 
shown on the tile itself), and they can also be drunk to activate special one-
time magical effects (see Drinking Potions, page 7).
A potion, front 
or Recipe side
The same potion, back 
or Completed side
Effect
Starter Potion 
Symbol
Point Value
Recipe
It’s better to ask for my Little Help before 
you take your regular pick for 
the turn. If you do it wisely, 
you can create the perfect 
conditions to trigger huge 
chain reactions!!!
It goes without saying that, after you end your turn, you won’t be able 
to move Ingredients out of your Pool until your next turn starts.

DRINKING POTIONS
(Gulpere potionibus)
At any time during your turn, you may drink one or more of the Potions you 
have completed to activate their magical effects. Each Potion is a one-use 
special power: once a Potion has been drunk, it can’t be drunk again.
To show that a Potion was used, just rotate it upside-down. Then, you can 
apply its effects.
When you use a Potion to take marbles from the Dispenser, you never 
trigger Explosions—Explosions can only be triggered when you use your 
regular pick for the turn. In the same way, you don’t trigger Explosions when 
you use a Little Help from the professor.
Using a Potion does not make you lose the Potion tile: it still counts as a 
complete Potion, and it’s still worth the same number of points at the end of 
the game.
REFILLING THE DISPENSER
(Dispenserium refillatus)
When you have to put Ingredient marbles into the Dispenser, you have to 
follow a couple little rules:
• Randomly roll the marbles onto the lid: Do not try to direct them to the 
entrance hole of any specific slide track.
• Fill all the slide tracks whenever possible: If one or more of the marbles 
end up laying on top of another marble (i.e. the track they ended up going 
into is already full, and they stick out from the lid), move them into the 
entrance hole of the nearest slide track with empty space.
END OF TURN
(Endius turnum)
After you have taken your regular pick for the turn, you asked for the Little 
Help from the professor if you wanted to, and you have drunk all the Potions 
you intended to, your turn ends; follow these steps, in order: 
• If you still have marbles in your hand and your Ingredient Pool is already 
full, you must discard them back into the tank of the Dispenser.
• If you have less than 2 Potion tiles in your Brewing area, you must choose 
and draw new Potions from the top of any of the five stacks available and 
place them on your Bunsen burners. Note: you may not move Ingredients 
from your pool to the Potion tiles you just drew, because you already 
finished your turn.
• Check to see if you earned one or more Skill tokens (see Skill tokens, 
page 8).
• Check to see if the game end has been triggered (see End of Game, 
page 9).
A Completed 
potion
The same 
potion, after 
drinking it.
You can also drink Potions as soon as you complete them, if you 
wish. This exam aims to prove your worth as witches and 
wizards, not to merely test your theoretical knowledge of 
potions. Being able to make good use of the fruit of your 
labor and turn it to your advantage is a critical skill!
You will always have 2 Potion tiles in the Brewing 
area of your Desk at the beginning of each turn, and 
you won’t be able to complete more than 2 Potions in 
a single turn. Hah!
Refilling the 
Dispenser

• SKILL TOKENS •
(Achievius rewardius)
Skill tokens are special rewards for students who prove themselves particularly 
talented... either by mastering one specific Potion, or for being able to brew a lot 
of different ones!
For each kind of Potion, when you complete your 3rd Potion of that kind (i.e., 
with the same power), you automatically receive a Skill token (but you don’t 
gain another token if you complete 6 Potions of the same kind).
Also, when you complete your 5th different kind of Potion (i.e., completing 
Potions with 5 different powers), you automatically receive a Skill token (but you 
don’t gain another Skill token if you complete a second set of 5 different Potions).
Skill tokens are received from the “countdown” stack (or from the general pool if the 
“countdown” stack is empty). Each Skill token is worth 4 points at the end of the game.
Example: By completing the potions depicted above, José 
obtained 3 Skill tokens at the end of the game. The first was 
obtained when completing the 3rd Filter of Lavamancing (A). 
The second was obtained when completing the 3rd Elixir of 
Blind Love (B). Note that even if José ended up completing 6 
Filters of Lavamancing, he didn’t obtain a second Skill token 
(since the token is awarded when you complete your 3rd Potion 
of one same kind, not for each set of 3). Finally, the third was 
obtained when completing a 5th different kind of Potion (C). 
Again, even if he completed 6 kinds of Potions in total, no 
additional Skill token was awarded because the goal of “at least 
5 different kinds of Potions” was already achieved.
A Skill token
I should not have to point this out, but... better safe than sorry: 
you don’t have to “create sets of Potion tiles” and “spend” them 
to receive Skill tokens. Think of each Skill token as an 
“achievement”: once you have obtained it once, you 
can’t obtain it a second time for the same reason. 
Also, a single Potion tile can be used to obtain more 
than one “achievement”.

• END OF GAME •
(Calculatio finalis pointibus)
During the game setup, you placed a certain number of Skill tokens into a 
“countdown” stack (see table to the right). If, at the end of any player’s turn, 
the last of the Skill tokens from the “countdown” stack has been taken, the 
end of the game is triggered. The end of the game is also triggered if, at the 
end of any player’s round, there are no more Potion tiles available.
The game continues, in clockwise order, until the player to the right of the 
First Player completes their next turn (so that all players will have played 
the same number of turns during the game). Even if the required number of 
Skill tokens have already been awarded, players can still earn more from the 
general pool, if they are able to do so.
After this, all players add up the points they obtained from all the Potion tiles 
they completed and the Skill tokens they collected, then subtract 2 points for 
each Little Help token they have.
The player with the most points is the winner!
In case of a tie, all the tied players (starting from the First Player, in turn 
order) each take one marble from the Dispenser to try to trigger an 
Explosion. The player who takes the most marbles in this way is the winner.
Number of players
“Countdown” stack
4 Skill tokens
5 Skill tokens
6 Skill tokens
Example: It’s a 4-player game. Heiko was the first player at the 
beginning of the game, and just finished his turn after taking 
the 5th Skill token from the “countdown” stack—his second—
leaving one Skill token in the stack. Now it’s David’s turn. He 
manages to earn the last Skill token from the “countdown” 
stack, which triggers the end of the game. Jose and Anna 
will both have one final turn to play, then the game will 
end. José plays next, but does not earn any Skill token on his 
turn. During her turn, Anna manages to get 1 Skill token for 
“The 3rd Potion of one same kind”, and another for “The 5th 
different kind of Potion”. Since the “countdown” stack is empty, 
she takes them from the general pool. At the end of Anna’s 
turn, the game is over. The players can finally calculate their 
final scores.
We suggest these numbers of Skill tokens so that your games last 
a reasonable amount of time (not too short,not too long). But, if 
you have particularly slow or overthinking players at the table, 
or if you feel confident enough with the basics of 
the game, feel free to agree on a different number 
at the beginning of play, if you‘d like to have 
shorter or longer games!

• CREDITS •
(Riconoscentium laboribus)
Special Thanks: Albedus Humblescore, Harry P., Gemblo, Bomberman, Silvia Proverbio, Michelle 
Crespi, Valentina Adduci, Heiko Eller, Harald Bilz, Noa Vassalli, Luca Ricci, Franchino Quintigliano, 
Marco Brera, Giulia De Florio, Lucio Brera, Pietro Righi Riva, Alessandro Fibbi, Alessia Pastore, Paolo 
Pulci, David Preti, Daniele Tascini, Giuliano Acquati, Eleonora Del Bono, Michele Silva, Alizarina Silva, 
Diego 3D, Diego Cerreti, Giovanni Intini, Riccardo Sandroni, Maurizio Vergendo, Max Tolazzi, Michael 
Kröhnert, Alessio Vallese, Federico Latini, Paolo Mori, Martino Chiacchiera, Walter Nuccio, Roberto 
Pestrin, Giuseppe Lapadula, Elena Appiani, Venturelli Emiliano, Andrea Mezzotero, Gabriele Bubola, 
Sara Rubino, Ciro Facciolli, Gabriele Golfarini, Alice Caroti, Antonella Frezza, Francesca Mazzei, Enrico 
Procacci, Massimiliano Calimera, Gianfranco Castelli, Francesca Mazzotta, Giulia Marucci, Massimo 
Giovacchini, Alessandra Tuzi, Susan Micale, Isabella Bisiacchi, Francesco Diodato, Flavio Franzone, 
Edoardo Chiesa, Andrea Greco, Francesco Granone, Roberta Signorello, Luca Pinchiroli, Valentina 
Foglietto, Giovanni Tagliati, Roberto Vicario, Claudia Crespi, Roberto Carugo, 
Maurizio Carugo, Davide Calza, Andrea Polimadei, Andrea Settoni, Giuseppe 
Cicero, Stefano Proverbio, Angelo Raimondi, Andrea Marinetti, Valentina 
Sacchi, Alessandro Adduci, Annachiara Ogliari, Alessandro Capponi, Sara 
Tonetti, Mauro Marinetti, Alfredo Genovese, Ari Emdin, Anna Scovenna 
and many many others!
 • HOW TO TIDILY FIT EVERYTHING INTO THE GAME BOX •
(Avoidius horribilis messibus)
Potion tiles
Potion tiles
Tokens bag
Desk boards
Marbles inside 
the drawer
• ORIGINAL HORRIBLE GAMES EDITION •
Design: Lorenzo Silva, Andrea Crespi & Stefano Castelli 
Artwork: Giulia Ghigini 
Graphic Design: Heiko Günther 
Art Direction: Lorenzo Silva 
Development: Andrea Crespi & Lorenzo Silva 
Project Manager: Alessandro Prà 
Production Manager: Lorenzo Silva 
English Language Rules: Alessandro Prà & William Niebling
• CMON EDITION •
Production: Thiago Aranha, Guilherme Goulart & Carolina Negrão 
Publisher: David Preti

AVAILABLE NOW!
THE VIDEO GAME

• LIST OF POTION EFFECTS •
(De potionis effectibus)
POTION OF WISDOM
Take one Ingredient of your choice from the 
Dispenser. No Explosions are triggered.
Nothing’s out of reach if you think it through.
POTION OF MAGNETICAL ATTRACTION
Take 2 adjacent Ingredients of different colors 
from the same slide track of the Dispenser. 
I don’t think this is what they mean when they say 
“magnetic personality”.
SANDS OF TIME
Activate again the effect of 1 Potion you already used.
We can always learn from our past mistakes... but we 
can gain even more from our past good moves!
ELIXIR OF BLIND LOVE
Steal all the Ingredients from 1 opponent’s Pool.
Why bother with theft, when all you need to do is 
unleash your dazzling charm?
FILTER OF LAVAMANCING
Discard up to 5 Ingredients of 1 color from the 
same slide track of the Dispenser back into the tank. 
Not exactly a surgical strike type of thing, but 
undeniably powerful.
POTION OF PRISMATIC JOY
You can place all Ingredients in your Pool 
on any holes of your incomplete Potions, 
regardless of their color.
Marbles? Colors? Who cares... let’s party!
BALM OF UTTERMOST STICKINESS
Take 2 or more adjacent Ingredients of the same color 
from the same slide track of the Dispenser. 
This stuff is stickier than molasses! 
The thing is... how do you unstick this mess?
ABYSSAL DRAFT
Take up to 1 Ingredient of each color from the bottom 
row of the Dispenser slide tracks. You can only take 1 
Ingredient from each slide track.
This is what is called “scraping the bottom of the 
barrel”. A huge barrel.