1-6
8+
45min
Game Concept and Object of the Game
By Dirk Henn
Components for the Standard Game
Common components:
• 1 Center board 
Front: with pre-printed Scoring tiles
• 1 Round marker
• 6 Dice in 6 colors
• 318 Powerline tokens
• 30 Joker
tiles
Player components, for 6 players:
VARIANT 1: 
CONSTRUCTION LIMITS
• Reverse side of 
the Player boards
Blue worker chart
VARIANT 2: 
ADVENTURE ISLAND
• 6 "Adventure 
Island" tiles
VARIANT 3: 
CONTRACTS
• Reverse side of 
the Center board
without pre-printed 
• 9 Scoring tiles
3× red, 3× green, 3× yellow
(A, B, C) (D, E, F) (G, H, I)
VARIANT 4: 
SPECIAL CONTRACTS
• 3 Scoring tiles
J, K and L 
Build the energy supply of the Future!
You have been tasked with building an eﬃ cient power network by 
connecting power stations to supply cities with sustainable energy (and 
earn victory points). The dice will play a crucial role, since they specify 
the order in which you have to construct the diﬀ erent powerlines.
But which city do you want to supply ﬁ rst, and which power stations 
will be the easiest to connect? Each round oﬀ ers interesting choices 
and requires you to search for the best combinations in order to score. 
The player with the most VP after the ﬁ nal scoring is the winner of 
Powerline!
The game includes several variants, allowing you to tailor the 
experience to ﬁ t your desired level of challenge.
B Note: Any additional tiles are meant as a replacement 
in case some go missing!
• 1 Player board
Front: Green worker chart
• 8 Power station tiles
• 1 Vacation 
tile
• 18 Worker tiles
(Front)/
Energy tiles
(Reverse Side)
• 1VP 
marker 
• 1 +50/ +100
VP tile
• 1 Kite tile
• 6 Worker meeples in the 6 dice colors
In player color:
Components for the Variants (p. 7)
• 1 Rules booklet
Queen Games has always been an environmental conscious 
company and with the "Green Planet" line we further strengthen 
our commitment to minimize the carbon footprint of the 
games we release. By working with local manufacturers to
procure all our components and planting trees, we reach a 
carbon neutral production for Powerline.

1) Place the Center board in the 
middle of the table, front side (with the 
pre-printed scoring tiles) up. 
The Round marker starts on space 0 
of the round track.
Put the Dice and all Powerline tiles 
and Joker tiles next to the center 
board. Per player, place one joker tile 
on each of the joker spaces above the 
ﬁ rst two scoring spaces of the round 
track on the center board. 
2) Each player chooses a color and 
takes:
A) 
Any 1 Player board:
Place the player board with the 
the green worker chart side up 
in front of you.
Setup
B) 
1 Kite tile: 
Place it at the top of your player board. 
The kite displays your player color.
C) 18 Worker/Energy tiles:
Place the 15 worker tiles on the 
worker chart of your player board, 
one tile per space. 3 go beside 
your board as energy tiles.
D) 6 Worker meeples,
1 each in red, yellow, blue, 
green, white, and black: 
Put them on the matching 
colored worker spaces of your 
player board. 
E) 
A supply of 1 Vacation tile
and 8 power station tiles: 
Place them next to your player 
board.
F) 
1 +50/ +100 VP tile:
Place it next to your board.
If your VP marker passes the 50 VP space 
during the game, place your tile next to the 
center board with the 50 VP side up. If you 
pass the 50 VP space again, ﬂ ip the tile to the 
100 VP side.
G) 1 VP marker:
Place it on space 10 of the VP-track on the 
center board.
B Note: Each player board has a diﬀ erent distribution 
of pips in the segments of the various powerlines.
Round track
E
F
WORKER CHART
POWER STATION
CITY
POWERLINE
SUN 
SPACE
Scoring space
Victory point track
e
E
F
G
4 SEGMENTS OF 
ONE POWERLINE

Playing The Game
Powerline is played over 15 game rounds, with each round played simultaneously by 
all players. 
Players earn points by completing powerlines, thereby supplying cities with energy and 
connecting power stations. There are, in addition, 3 other opportunities to score points: 
Two mid-game scorings after the 5th and 10th round and a ﬁ nal scoring after the 15th 
round. The player with the most points after the ﬁ nal scoring wins the game.
Each game round consists of the following three phases, played consecutively:
U 1) Roll Dice 
U 2) Plan Workers 
U 3) Construct Powerlines
U 1) Roll Dice
One player rolls all 6 dice and places them according to their color on the 
designated spaces of the center board.
U 2) Plan Workers
Players simultaneously plan their construction by 
placing their colored workers on eligible segments 
of uncompleted powerlines: A segment is eligible if 
the die of the same color as the worker shows the 
same number of pips as the uncompleted 
segment (see next page for more details).
Players must begin by placing either the red or the black worker. If they choose 
to place more workers, they have to continue in the order of colors (i.e. yellow if 
red was chosen and white if black was chosen, and so on) from left to right or right 
to left on the line of workers. That order is identical to the sequence of the dice on 
the center board.
Each player may choose how many workers to place, up to a maximum of all six 
workers. They must place at least one worker.
pre-printed
Dice spaces
G
WORKER SPACES
Powerline segment with 3
l
ISLAND

The Worker tiles
When you are done planning, count how many empty worker spaces there are on your board: From the worker chart, remove a worker 
tile from the column that corresponds to the result. Place the tile next to your player board and ﬂ ip it. It is now an energy tile.
1) On an empty powerline, you may choose the ﬁ rst segment 
on either end to place a worker. This sets the direction of 
construction for this powerline.
2) On a powerline with at least one 
worker, you may only place the new 
worker on the next empty segment 
in the direction of construction.
3) On a powerline with at least one 
powerline token, you may only 
place a worker on the next empty 
segment in the direction of 
construction.
AImportant: You are only allowed to begin construction from 
one end of the Powerline and proceed in the chosen direction 
of construction!
4) You are allowed to place more than one or even all your 
workers on segments of the same powerline, provided the 
workers can be placed in the correct order of colors.
5) Each round you may place your workers on up 
to 3 powerlines. You may not place workers on 
more than 3 lines!
6) The island is always eligible: you can send as many workers 
there as you like to "skip" the die of the same color as the 
worker. You will lose 1 VP per worker on the island at the 
end of the round, but this may be a good option if you cannot 
use the result of a certain die.
Joker tiles: 
You may spend a joker tile from the sun space of 
your player board, to place a worker on any eligible 
segment disregarding the corresponding die result. 
The spent tile is returned to the common supply.
Eligible placements for your workers:
AImportant: If you do not have any worker tiles remaining in 
the corresponding column, you cannot plan your construction 
this way; you will have to plan again, checking your worker 
chart to see how many workers you are still allowed to use.
There are 4 empty worker spaces on Nico's player board. He removes 
the ﬁ rst worker tile from the 4-worker column of the worker chart.
Luna has deployed two workers, but there are no more worker tiles 
left in the 2-worker column. She could either put the yellow worker 
back on its space, send the blue worker to the island, or plan again.
The joker tile can be 
used to place the white 
worker on a segment 
with a 3 even though 
the die shows a 2.
Sending this green worker 
to the island opens up new 
possibilities.
Direction of Construction >>>
<<< Direction of Construction
WORKER CHART
WORKER SPACES

All players take powerline tokens from the supply and place them 
on all segments on which their workers are deployed. 
Return the workers to their spaces at the top of your player board. 
B Note: For your ﬁ rst few games, we recommend to play phase 
U 3) Construct Powerlines consecutively to make sure that 
everything is correctly build.
U 3) Construct Powerlines
Place powerline tokens
When all players have ﬁ nished this phase, advance the round marker 1 space: 
If it lands on a number, start the next round with phase U 1) Roll Dice. 
If it lands on a scoring space, proceed with the scoring.
Power stations
If all powerlines connecting a power station with its neighboring 
stations are completed, that station has reached its full eﬃ ciency: 
Cover it with a power station tile from the supply and advance 
your VP marker according to the number depicted on the 
covered power station.
Cities
If you have covered the last segment of a powerline with a 
powerline token, take one energy tile and place it on the city 
directly next to the powerline:
The city is now supplied with energy; advance your VP marker 
according to the number depicted on the covered city.
Check your powerlines:
The Vacation tile: 
Once per game you can elude the penalty of the island by returning your vacation tile to the game box: 
You do not lose any VP this round, no matter how many workers there are on your island!
B Note: After a few games of Powerline, you'll be ready to play without the vacation tile: Leave it in the box.
The Island
For every worker on the island, lose 1 VP (move your VP marker 
back). You cannot drop below 0 VP.
The workers return to their spaces on your player board as usual.
Gaining a joker tile
If you have placed only 1 worker on a 
powerline segment or on the island, you 
remove a worker tile in the ﬁ rst column of 
your worker chart and unlock a joker tile: 
Place one joker tile from the supply on 
your sun space.
Declare when you are done planning. Once all players are done, proceed with phase U 3) Construct Powerlines.
Nico has completed 
the 3-VP powerline. 
He covers the city 
with an energy tile 
and advances his 
VP-marker 3 steps on 
the VP track.
On a later turn, Nico has also 
completed the other powerline 
that connects to the wind power 
station (top left corner of the 
player board). He covers the 
depicted 5 points with a power 
station tile and advances his 
VP-marker 5 steps on the VP 
track.
For 2 workers on the island Nico loses 
2 VP. He moves his VP marker back 
2 steps and returns the workers to their 
worker spaces.
Luna deploys only 
one worker and 
uncovers a sun 
symbol when she 
removes the worker 
tile from the 
1-worker column. 
She then places a 
joker tile on the 
sun space of her 
player board.
Leon places powerline 
tokens where his work-
ers were deployed and 
returns them to their 
spaces on his player 
board.

Scoring 
When the round marker lands on one of the 3 extra scoring spaces – after the 5th, 10th, and 15th round – all 3 scoring 
cards are evaluated for each player. Each card shows a condition that has to be met by you in order to gain VP, 
with the amount you earn changing in each scoring. You can gain the VP in each scoring, even if you already 
gained VP in a previous scoring. 
AImportant: When everyone has received their VP, all players take a joker tile from above the scoring space.
End of the game
The game ends after the third and ﬁ nal scoring has taken place. 
As indicated on the last space of the game round track, players now lose VP for powerlines that are not completed, but 
have at least one powerline tile on them:
Number of unﬁ nished powerlines
[+1]
– VP
[+5]
After everyone has moved back their VP-markers, the player who is now in the leading position on the VP-track wins the game. 
In case of a tie, the player who has placed more power station tiles on their board wins. If still tied, the players share the victory.
A) Score VP for the number of your supplied cities (i.e. covered by an energy tile):
1st scoring: 2VP for 1–2 cities, 5VP for 3–5 cities
2nd scoring: 1VP for 1–2 cities, 3VP for 3–5 cities, 5 VP for 6+ cities
3rd scoring: 0VP for 1–2 cities, 1VP for 3–5 cities, 3VP for 6+ cities
D) Score VP for the number of power station tiles on your player board:
1st scoring: 4VP for one power station tile, 5VP for two tiles, 7VP for three
2nd scoring: 2VP for one power station tile, 3VP for two tiles, 4VP for three
3rd scoring: 0VP for one power station tile, 1VP for two tiles, 2VP for three
G) Score VP for the Joker tiles on your sun space:
1st scoring: 1VP for each Joker tile
2nd scoring: 2VP for each Joker tile
3rd scoring: 3VP for each Joker tile
Solo-Game
The Solo game is played identically to a game with 2–6 players. After the end of the game, use the following chart to determine your 
skills as a powerline-builder:
Then the round marker is advanced to the next space and a new round starts. If this is the ﬁ nal scoring, play continues with "End of the game."
The scoring tiles:
VP
0–60
Dice are not your friends...
61–70
A good start! Keep it up!
71–80
Solid work!
81–90
Awesome accomplishment.
91–100
You're a master builder of powerlines!
101+
It is about time for you to increase the diﬃ culty!
When you ﬁ nd yourself scoring high consistently, that is a good 
time to introduce one or more of the following variants to 
increase the diﬃ culty and give you a new challenge!
Example of the 1st Scoring:
A: Nico has 3 cities covered by an energy tile, so he earns 5 VP.
D: There is 1 power station tile on Nico's player board. He earns 4VP.
G: For one Joker tile on his sun space, Nico earns 1VP.

Variants
VARIANT 1: CONSTRUCTION LIMITS
Use the reverse side of your player board, which has a new (blue) worker chart. This chart introduces new limits for placing workers on powerlines:
• If you only deploy 1 or 2 workers, you can only place workers on 1 powerline.
• If you deploy 3 or 4 workers, you may place them on 1 or 2 powerlines. 
• Only if you deploy 5 or all 6 can you place them on 1, 2, or 3 powerlines. 
AImportant: The number of deployed workers includes any workers send to the island. The island does not count towards the limit of powerlines.
J) Score VP if there are at least 6 Powerline tokens on the 17VP-powerline:
3rd scoring: 1VP 
VARIANT 4: SPECIAL CONTRACTS
During set-up, shuﬄ e scoring tiles J, K, and L (marked with a small crown Y in the lower left corner) with the rest of the tiles or use just them. 
K) Score VP if 1, 2, or 3 of your wind power stations (A) and/or hydro power stations (B) are covered by a power station tile:
1st scoring: 5VP for one wind power station OR one hydro power station
2nd scoring: 2VP for one wind power station OR one hydro power station; 4 VP for one wind power station AND one hydro power station;
 
 6 VP for one wind power station AND one hydro power station, PLUS a second wind power and/or hydro power station
3rd scoring: 0 VP for one wind power station OR one hydro power station; 2 VP for one wind power station AND one hydro power station;
 
 4 VP for one wind power station AND one hydro power station, PLUS a second wind power and/or hydro power station
L) Score VP if there are no, 1–2 or 3–5 Powerline tokens on the "Adventure Island" (in total, no matter on which stack they are placed):
1st scoring: 3VP for no Powerline tokens
2nd scoring: 5VP for no Powerline tokens, 3VP for 1–2 Powerline tokens
3rd scoring: 7VP for no Powerline tokens, 5VP for 1–2 Powerline tokens, 3VP for 3–5 Powerline tokens
B Note: To use this tile without the "Adventure Island", just place a Powerline token on the island for each worker that was deployed 
there, when returning your workers in phase U 3) Construct Powerlines. Do not place any powerline tokens when spending the 
vacation tile.
VARIANT 2: ADVENTURE ISLAND
At the start of the game, cover the island of your player board with the 
"Adventure Island" tile: When deploying a worker to the Adventure Island, 
place it on the die symbol that has the same number of pips as the die of the 
same color as the worker which has been sent to the island.
In phase U 3) Construct Powerlines replace each worker deployed to a 
certain number with a Powerline token. For each tile you will lose VP: 
For the ﬁ rst tile on the stack of any number you immediately lose 1VP. 
For the second tile of a stack, you lose 2 VP, for the third 3VP, and so on, 
up to a maximum of 5VP per tile. 
VARIANT 3: CONTRACTS
For this variant, use the side B of the center board and the scoring tiles A–I.
Using the side B of the center board, you will not get a joker tile after the 2nd scoring. During Set-up, separate the scoring tiles by color, shuﬄ e them, and 
draw one of each. Place them on the same colored spaces of the center board and return the rest to the box. Each scoring tile will be scored during the 3 scoring 
phases. The diﬀ erent conditions and amount of VP each scoring card gives are explained in detail on page 8.
B Note: You can also play using just the scoring tiles and not ﬂ ipping the center board to side B. In that case cover the three imprinted scoring tiles with the 
ones just drawn. You may also shuﬄ e all scoring tiles, disregarding their colors, and randomly draw 3 tiles.
The following variants change the game play of Powerline in diﬀ erent ways and allow for new experiences. They can be played 
individually or in any combination. All rules of the base game still apply except for the changes described in each variant.
B Note: When playing with younger players, experienced players may use this module as a handicap.
AImportant: The Powerline tokens are not removed from the "Adventure Island" throughout the course of the game! This means skipping the same die result 
on later turns will increase the amount of lost VP!
This turn, Nico has sent 2 workers 
to the Adventure Island, to skip a 4
two times. Later, when replacing the 
ﬁ rst worker with a Powerline token, 
he loses 2 VP, as he had already 
skipped a 4 on an earlier turn. 
Thus, the new token is the second 
token of the 4-stack in total. For the 
other worker, replaced by the third 
tile, he loses 3VP.

© Copyright 2022 
Queen Games, 
53842 Troisdorf, Germany. 
All rights reserved.
A) Score VP for the 
number of your supplied 
cities (i.e. covered by an 
energy tile):
2VP for 1–2 cities, 
5VP for 3–5 cities
1VP for 1–2 cities, 
3VP for 3–5 cities,
5 VP for 6+ cities
0VP for 1–2 cities, 
1VP for 3–5 cities,
3VP for 6+ cities
B) Score VP if 
1 or 2 of your 
cities with an 
opera house are 
supplied (i.e. 
covered by an energy tile):
5VP for one city, 
7VP for 2 cities
3VP for one city, 
5VP for 2 cities
1VP for one city, 
2VP for 2 cities
C)* Score VP if 
1 or 2 of your 
cities with a 
church are 
supplied (i.e. 
covered by an energy tile):
3VP for one city, 
5VP for 2 cities
2VP for one city, 
3VP for 2 cities
1VP for one city, 
2VP for 2 cities 
D) Score VP for the number 
of power station tiles on your 
player board:
4VP for one power station 
tile, 5VP for two tiles, 
7VP for three tiles
2VP for one power station 
tile, 3VP for two tiles, 
4VP for three tiles
0VP for one power station 
tile, 1VP for two tiles, 
2VP for three tiles
E) Score VP if 1 or 2 of your 
solar stations are covered 
with a power station tile):
5VP for one solar station, 
7VP for 2 solar stations
3VP for one solar station, 
5VP for 2 solar stations
1VP for one solar station, 
2VP for 2 solar stations 
F) Score VP if 1 or 2 of your 
biogas stations are covered 
with a power station tile:
3VP for one biogas station, 
5VP for 2 biogas stations
2VP for one biogas station, 
3VP for 2 biogas stations
1VP for one biogas station, 
2VP for 2 biogas stations
G) Score VP for the Joker 
tiles on your sun space:
1VP for each Joker tile
2VP for each Joker tile
3VP for each Joker tile
H) Score VP if you have 
already removed all worker 
tiles from the columns for 
5 AND 6 workers:
3rd scoring: 0VP
I) Score VP if you have 
already removed all worker 
tiles from the column for 
3 workers:
3rd scoring: 0VP 
Explanation of the scoring tiles:
In the top half of each scoring tile, you'll ﬁ nd a diagram of your player board: The powerlines, cities, power stations, 
or other spaces that are relevant for scoring are marked in red (A).
In the bottom half, you'll ﬁ nd a VP-chart: 
In the top left corner (B) is a picture of the game piece that is associated with the scoring. 
The potential VP for the ﬁ rst (top), second (middle), and third scoring (bottom) are presented in three rows (C). 
The columns (D) indicate how many VP you will earn depending on how many of these game pieces you have on your board.
* Sorry, something went 
wrong here! Instead 
of the index letter "C" 
there is an erroneous 
second "A" printed on 
this scoring tile. This 
does not aﬀ ect the 
usability of the tile. 
But please check twice 
which tile you have at 
hand when referencing 
it on this page.