Author: Corné van Moorsel Artwork: Christof Tisch 
• 1 start/finish tile
• 6 speedboats
• 18 1-2-3 dice
• 6 score markers
• 10 damage counters
• 5 buoys Connect the corresponding
 numbers / symbols, with the
 arrows in the same directions.
• 4 lake border tiles
• 6 lake tiles
Navigate between the islands and round the buoys. Don’t crash and finish fast!
Number of players: 2–6 | Length: 1 hour | Age: 9–99
CONTENTS

PREPARATION
– Connect the 4 long puzzle tiles to form the lake border and randomly fit the 6 lake tiles inside this frame. Use the sides with
the dark blue water. Experienced players can choose to play on the light blue backside.
– Each player gets the speedboat in the color on their side of the board.
– Place the corresponding score markers on “0” on the score track.
– Roll dice to determine the start player.
– Place the stock of dice near the board.
– Place the damage counters on the biggest island.
(There are enough dice and damage counters, otherwise be inventive.)
BUILDING A COURSE
Players try to reach the highest points total over 3 races. To build the first course use the four A-spots (in water and on land). For the
second course you use the B-spots, for the third course the C-spots. Place buoy 0, 1, 2 and 3 randomly on these four places. Place
the start/finish tile at the side where you see the character under the start (0) buoy. Place the finish buoy at the other end of the
start/finish tile. Buoy 1, 2 and 3 have two sides: leftward or rightward arrows. Place these arrows so that boats don’t have to turn a
complete circle around one buoy when rounding buoy 1, 2 and 3 in order. Finally let the start and finish buoys arrows show in which
direction boats pass the start tile and in which direction they finish. Choose the easiest start and finish directions.
start
Here a course is built. The arrows show the
route around buoy 1 first, then buoy 2, then buoy 3
and finally to Finish. Buoy 1, 2 and 3 are placed so that
the buoy arrows don’t make boats travel in a complete
circle around one buoy. In other words: When you go
towards the next buoy, you don’t have to cross your
old path from the former buoy.
To round a buoy you don’t
have to be close to it. There can be
islands (or even other buoys) between
your boat and the buoy. For example,
when you round buoy 1 you can go
around the islands near the Black or
Yellow side of the board.
finish
damage tiles
score markers
dice
The start/finish tile is
connected at the side where
“A” is written on the space with
the start buoy. The finish buoy
is placed at the other end of
the tile.
color area for dice

CHOOSING START POSITIONS
The right-hand neighbor of the start player first places their
speedboat on or behind the start tile, followed counter-clockwise
by all players in turn (so the start player places last). Two boats
cannot share one space. Let the front of your speedboat point
towards a side of its space, not towards a corner.
TURNS
First: Rolling dice
The dice on your color area on the lake quay show
your speed. This is zero when you start a race (no
dice yet).
• Number of dice: With each turn, you can add 1 die
(from the stock) or remove 1 die (to the stock), or
you hold your number of dice equal.
• Re-roll: You can also select which dice on your
color area you want to re-roll.
You roll the selected dice, and the added die if you
chose one, all at once. 
Add these rolled dice on your color area (where all
dice stay until your next turn).
Second: Turning your speedboat
Before moving you can turn your boat, 60 degrees
to the left or right side. You must choose a direction
where you can move by the total of the numbers on
your dice. Your boat must move in a straight line
through water spaces. If you will crash on land or a
buoy in all 3 directions, then you must take the
direction with the longest straight path through
water before crashing. If that is equal in 2 or 3
directions, then you choose one of these directions.
Third: Moving
Move your boat in its direction in a straight line, by
the total on your dice. Your boat ends on the last
water space it reaches. Now your left-hand neighbor
starts their turn.
DAMAGE
You crash if land or a buoy blocks your boat in any direction, so
that you can’t use up the complete numbers on your dice. Your
boat stays in the far most water space you can reach. The
remainder of your movement total is the number of damage
counters you now receive. Your boat loses its speed completely,
so you lose all your dice.
Collecting 4 or more damage counters in total means your boat
sinks and you are out of the current race.
You can repair your boat for next course, though you hold one
damage counter (your boat remains less safe). For players with
1, 2 or 3 damage counters the same applies: you repair for next
race but hold one damage counter. After the second race the
same applies, so you can have 2 damage counters at the start of
the third course.
Orange, Purple,
Red and Yellow chose
their start spot.
Possible moving
directions for a boat.
Yellow must move
7 spaces. By turning to the
left the boat would crash
onto land directly, and
going straight on it would
crash after 6 spaces. So
Yellow must turn to the
right before moving.
At the start of Yellow’s turn, Yellow has two dice: ❸❷. 
Yellow holds the ❸, re-rolls the ❷and rolls a new die. 
Yellow rolls ❶❸. 
So now Yellow has ❸❶❸, giving 7 in total.
(The number of dice you re-roll is your choice, but you cannot
add or remove more than 1 die before rolling!)
Red has ❸❷❷, but wants
to slow down. Red holds a ❷,
removes 1 die and re-rolls the other
die, getting a ❸. So now Red has 
❷❸, giving a total of 5. The longest
path for Red is 3 spaces. So Red must
turn to the right and crashes on land.
Red receives 2 damage counters 
(5 [speed] minus 3 [traveled spaces]),
and loses both dice.
Next turn Red can start the engines
again by rolling 1 die, like at the start
of a race, or Red only turns leftward
or rightward.
Yellow moves 7
spaces in a straight line.
On the last space the
boat must stay in the
direction it moved.

PASSING BOATS
You can pass through spaces with other boats in them.
But if you would end your move in the same space as
an opponent, you stay behind the other boat, on the
last free space you reach.
END OF A COURSE
To complete a course you must reach or pass
the finish tile.
Note: A crash after the finish still damages your boat.
VICTORY POINTS
In the first race, the winner gets points equal to the number of
players minus 1. The player finishing second gets 1 point less,
the third player 2 points less and so on. So the last player gets
no points. Sunken players don’t get points, unless the crash
happened after finishing.
In the second race all positions bring double as many points
and in the third race triple as many points as in the first race. 
Example: In case of 5 players you get in race-A: 4, 3, 2, 1 points,
in race-B: 8, 6, 4, 2 points and in race-C: 12, 9, 6, 3 points.
Mark the points with the score markers on the score track. 
If tied scores exist after the final race, then the finishing
positions in the last race determine the order.
In each new race the left neighbor of the previous start player will be the new start player.
2-PLAYER-GAME SCORE / SCORE VARIANT
In case of 2 players, or alternatively for more players: Supplementary to these victory points, count how many turns each player
finishes before the last finishing player does. Add this difference on the score track. Finished players get 5 points extra per sunken
boat.
Thanks to Jon Power.
Yellow has ❷❶,
doesn’t add or remove a die
and re-rolls both. Yellow
rolls ❸❷and passes
Orange and Purple.
Red has ❸❸. To avoid a crash, Red removes one die
and re-rolls the other. But again it is ❸. In each possible
direction Red has only 2 spaces before crashing on land. Red
chooses to move straight ahead, receives 1 damage counter (the
remainder of Red’s die number) and must remove the die to the
stock. Since you can’t end in a space with an other boat, Red
actually ends 1 space behind Purple. Purple gets no damage.
Yellow has ❶❸and doesn’t
add, remove or re-roll dice. Yellow
moves 4 spaces and finishes.
Note that rolling dice would be a risk for
Yellow, because for moving 6 or more
spaces Yellow would have to turn left to
avoid a crash on land.
Publisher: Cwali
Einsteinstraat 4H
6227 BX Maastricht
Netherlands
tel: 0031-640-893506
info@cwali.nl
http://www.cwali.nl
Play games with players in the whole world at 
www.mastermoves.eu.
There you can play a 2-player-version of this game in tournaments.
Orange has ❸❷❶.
Orange removes the ❸and doesn’t
re-roll the remaining two dice.
Turning to the right and moving 
3 spaces (❷plus ❶) would bring
Orange into the same space as
Yellow. But two boats in one space is
not allowed. So Orange moves to
the last free space.