Prime Climb is a game of strategy and luck for 2-4 players.
Time
Roughly 10 minutes per player. Recommended for ages 10 and up.
Included
- Prime Climb board
- Eight pawns
Setup
Lay out the board, shuffle the 24 Prime Cards, place two pawns on Start for 
each player, and roll the dice to decide who will play first. You’re ready to 
go!
Goal of the Game
See the 101 circle? It’s the big red circle at the center of the spiral. The goal 
of Prime Climb is to land both your pawns on 101 exactly.
Rules
Players take turns until someone wins by landing both pawns exactly on 
the 101 circle. You are never allowed to move a pawn past 101. All players 
begin the game with both pawns at the Start circle, which counts as 0.
A turn consists of four phases: Roll, Move, Bump, and Draw.
-24 Prime Cards
-4 blank Prime Cards
- Multiplication Table
- Two 10-sided dice
CLIMB
RIME
P
The Beautiful, Colorful, Mathematical Game

1. Roll
Roll the dice. The two numbers you roll will be used, one at a time, to move 
your pawns. In other words, if you roll a 3 and a 5, you have a 3 and a 5 to 
use on your turn; you do not get to use an 8, a 15, or a 35. In the case of 
doubles, you may use the number you rolled four times instead of twice. 
The “0” on the dice stands for “10.” You must use all your rolls.
2. Move
During your Move Phase, you add, subtract, multiply, or divide the number 
your pawn is on by a number you rolled and send that pawn to the 
resulting number. You must use both of your rolled numbers, one at a time. 
If you have Keeper cards, you may choose to play one or more of them 
before, between, or after applying your dice rolls. Your pawns may land 
on any space on the board, including occupied spaces. Pawns may never 
move to a space not on the board, such as negative numbers, non-whole 
numbers, or numbers greater than 101.
Example: Say you have a pawn on 14, and you roll a 3 and a 9. You could, if 
you chose, subtract 3 from 14 to land on 11, then multiply 11 by 9 to move to 
99. Note that each die is applied one at a time. You cannot multiply 3 times 
9 and use 27 for your move. 
For more details, see the examples further on in these rules.
3. Bump
If you end your Move Phase with either of your pawns on the same space 
as another pawn, send the pawn you landed on back to Start. Bumping is 
not optional.
Note: You can bump your own pawns.
Note: You bump a pawn only when you end your turn on an occupied 
space, not when you pass through an occupied space.
Example: You have a pawn on 31. Your opponents have pawns on 33 and 
37. You roll a 2 and a 4, which you apply by adding the 2 to move from 31 
to 33, and then adding the 4 to move from 33 to 37. You bump the pawn on 
37 back to Start. You do not bump the pawn on 33 back to Start, since you 
did not end your Move Phase on 33.
4. Draw
You draw a Prime Card after your Move and Bump Phases are completed if:
a) At least one of your pawns is on an entirely red space (i.e., a prime 
number greater than 10), and
b) That pawn did not begin its turn on that space.
You may draw only one card per turn, even if both your pawns end on red 
spaces. No card trading is allowed! There are two types of cards: Keeper 
Cards and Action Cards. 

Action Cards 
Any card that does not say Keeper on it is an Action Card. When you 
draw an Action Card, immediately perform the action the card requires. If 
the Action Card requires you to move one of own pawns, you must move 
the pawn that landed on the red space; if both your pawns moved to red 
spaces that turn, you may choose the pawn the card applies to. If an Action 
Card takes your pawn to an occupied space on the board, bump the pawn 
you land on back to Start. If an Action Card takes your pawn to a new red 
space, do not draw another Prime Card. In some positions, Action Cards 
may have no effect.
Keeper Cards
Keeper Cards
If you draw a Keeper Card, keep that card, face up, for a future turn. You 
may play any number of Keeper cards during your Move phase. You may 
not play a Keeper Card the turn you draw it.
ADD OR SUBTRACT 
YOUR PAWN BY 9
K
PLAY THIS CARD ON 
AN OPPONENT. 
ON THEIR 
FOLLOWING TURN, 
THEY MAY ONLY 
SUBTRACT OR DIVIDE
K
SEND ALL PAWNS 
WITHIN TWO SPACES OF 
YOU BACK TO START
Action Cards
After you play a card, discard it. If you run out of cards, shuffle the discard 
pile and continue drawing as necessary.
R O L L 
A G A I N !
REVERSE THE DIGITS 
IN YOUR NUMBER
SWITCH TWO PAWNS 
ON THE BOARD

101 and Winning the Game
When your first pawn reaches the 101 circle exactly, remove it from the 
board. You cannot move to a number past 101, or “bounce off” 101.
Example: You want to apply a roll of 7 to pawn on 98. You cannot roll to 
101 by adding, and cannot roll forward 3 and back 4 to end at 97. The only 
options available are to subtract to end at 91, or divide to end at 14.
After your first pawn reaches 101, you must apply all dice rolls to your 
remaining pawn. You win immediately when you can apply a dice roll or 
Keeper card to land your second pawn on 101. You do not have to use both 
dice rolls on your winning move.
Do not draw a Prime Card when you land on 101.
Using the Colors
The Prime Climb board is color-coded to make multiplication and division 
easy. Every time you multiply, the colors of the two numbers multiplied 
together are combined.
For example, say you have a pawn at 14 and one of your rolls is a 3. You 
decide to multiply 14 by 3, but aren’t sure what that product is. The colors 
will tell you. Notice that 14 is orange and purple, while 3 is green. That 
means that 14 times 3 will be orange, purple, and green. The only circle 
with exactly those colors is 42, which is 14 times 3.
This works for division too. Say you want to divide 84 by 4. When you divide, 
all you do is remove the colors of the smaller number from the bigger one. 
In this case, you need to remove the two oranges in 4 from the colors in 84. 
That means you’re looking for a number with the colors purple and green. 
Sure enough, 21 has precisely those colors, and 84 divided by 4 is 21.
For players who haven’t mastered all their arithmetic, you can use the the 
colors to check your math, or even do the work for you! In other words, you 
can start playing now with whatever you know, and the colors will help you. 
As you learn more math, you’ll see that more is possible in Prime Climb!
x
=

Examples
Example 1
With pawns on 4 and 26, you roll a 3 and a 9. You could:
Add 3 to move your pawn from 4 to 7, then multiply by 9 to move 
your pawn from 7 to 63.
Multiply by 3 to move your pawn from 26 to 78, then add 9 to move 
it from 78 to 87.
Add 9 to move one pawn from 4 to 13, and multiply by 3 to move 
the other from 26 to 78. Since 13 is completely red, you would draw 
a Prime Card.
You CANNOT add the 3 and 9 to use a 12. You CANNOT multiply 3 
and 9 to use a 27. You have to apply the numbers on the dice one 
by one.
You CANNOT add 9 to 26 to make 35, and then multiply 35 by 3, 
for if you did, you would go to 105, which is off the board. You must 
stay on the board at all times. (It’s not enough just to end up on the 
board at the end of your turn.)
Example 2
You roll double 2s, with a pawn on 78, and an opponent pawn on 42. This 
means you have four 2s that you must use. You could:
Add 2 (80), divide by 2 (40), add 2 (42), and add 2 (44). Note that 
even though you passed through a spot where an opponent had a 
pawn, you do not bump it back to start, because you did not end 
your Move Phase on 42.
Add 2 (80), add 2 (82), add 2 (84) and divide by 2 (42) to end your 
turn at 42 and send your opponent back to start.
Divide by 2 (39), add 2 (41), add 2 (43), and subtract 2 (41) to end 
at 41, and draw a Prime Card.
Example 3
People sometimes ask why you would ever subtract or divide. As you play 
more, you’ll see opportunities where subtraction and division open up 
great moves. Here is a case where you might want to divide. With a pawn 
on 64, you roll a 2 and a 3. You could:
Divide by 2 (32) then subtract 3 to end at 29. Since 29 is completely 
red, draw a Prime Card.
Divide by 2 (32) and multiply be 3 to end at 96! Division gets you 
closer to 101 than any of your other options.

FAQ
Q: I ended a turn on 26. That has some red in it. Do I still get a card?
A: No. Only take a card if you land on a circle that is entirely red, like 29. 
Q: Can I apply a card to either pawn?
A: If it’s a Keeper card, yes. Otherwise, Action cards apply to the pawn that 
is on the prime number. If both pawns are on red circles, then you may 
choose which pawn the card applies to.
Q: I was on 99 and rolled a 2 and a 5. Can I just use the 2 to get to 101 and 
forget about the 5?
A: Yes! If you have a second pawn, you must apply the 5 to it. If not, the 
game ends as soon as you land on 101, and you don’t have to use the 5.
Q: When both tokens land on a prime number, do I draw one card or two?
A: Just 1. The advantage in this situation is that you get to choose which 
pawn the card applies to, if it’s not a Keeper.
Q: When using division does the die number need to exactly divide the 
board number?
A: Yes. Do not use fractions or rounding when you divide.
Q: When a token lands on 101, do I draw a card?
A: No.
Q: Do I have to move? If the only thing I can do is subtract, do you have to 
move backwards?
A: You do have to move. That may mean moving backwards. In the unlikely 
event that you are forced to go below 0, you stay at 0.
Q: Do Action cards apply only to the pawn that landed on the red square?
A: Yes. If both pawns landed on a red space, you may apply the action to 
either pawn.
Q: In any one turn, can I move one pawn OR both?
A: Yes! Depending on the situation, moving one pawn might be a better 
move than moving both, or vice versa. Making this decision is an important 
part of the strategy of Prime Climb.
Q: I drew an Action Card that said I should reverse to the nearest pawn and 
send it back to Start. But the nearest pawn behind me is also my pawn! Do I 
send my own pawn back to Start?
A: Yes. In some situations, including this one, you may have to bump your 
own pawn back to Start.

Variations
Double Time
In normal game play, Bump and Draw Phases happen after all your moves 
are completed. In Double Time, you bump and draw after each move of a 
pawn. You can draw two or more Prime cards per turn in Double Time.
Way Stations
Choose one or more prime number(s) between 30 and 80. Before a 
player can move any pawn to 101, they need to land a pawn on the chosen 
space(s). This is a good variation for players who have begun to master the 
strategy of the standard game.
Prime Sprint
Whoever gets a single pawn to 101 wins. Perfect for when time is short, this 
game often takes less than five minutes.
Prime Decline
Instead of starting at 0, both pawns start at 101, and must get to 0. If your 
pawn is bumped, it is sent back to 101.
There and Back Again
Get both pawns in to 101, and then back to start. When you are bumped, 
you get sent to 101 or 0, whichever is worse for you.
Solitaire Variation 1
Get two pawns from 0 to 101 in the minimum number of rolls you can. Play 
only with the 9 Keeper cards that allow you to add or subtract your pawn 
by a certain number. Keep track of your rolls, and try to break your record!
Solitaire Variation 2 (There and Back Again Solo)
Same as Variation 1, except you have to get your two pawns to 101, and 
then back to 0.
Fill in the Blanks
Make your own Prime cards with the four included blanks! 

Prime Climb was created by Daniel Finkel and Katherine Cook of Math for 
Love, a Seattle-based organization devoted to transforming how math is 
taught and learned.
Find out about our current mathematical and educational projects at 
www.mathforlove.com
Copyright © 2014 Math for Love
math love 
+
θ
(
[
!
=
%{
}
<
z
x
y
)
n6
ϕ
∫
∞
Ω
t
∑ 
λ
ψ
π