Spielregel 
Rules booklet 
Livret de règles

object of the game
game componentS and Set–up
A monstrously strong pushing game 
by Wolfgang Dirscherl and Manfred Reindl 
for 2 – 4 players aged 5 years and up.
Turn after turn, players roll a die, then push the chosen monster into the arena, trying to do so without dislodging other monsters already there. This isn’t as 
easy as it might sound because you don’t push the monster with your hands, but with two custom made monster pushers.
If you do topple a monster (or two or three), your fellow players will be happy because they then collect a token matching these fallen monsters. When the 
game ends, whoever can form the longest line with their collected tokens wins this monstrously strong game!
The monsters have been let loose in the monster arena!
Here they can tease, taunt and tussle with the other monsters using every trick in 
the book. They push and squeeze and throw elbows and sometimes even poke 
one another with their sharp ﬁngers.
Be careful, though — despite all of this frantic pushing, monsters shouldn’t shove 
other monsters out of the arena!
• 2 monster pushers 
Keep these pushers handy for all players.
• 81 monster tokens 
Sort these tokens by size into 6 stacks and keep them within easy reach.
• 1 rules booklet
• 27 wooden monsters 
Before your ﬁrst game, 
place the stickers on the monsters, 
attaching the appropriate sticker 
to one side of each monster.
• 1 die 
Place one round icon sticker on each side of the die.
• 1 monster arena 
Place the monster arena in the 
center of the playing area.
preparing to play the game
Before starting the game, place onto the arena the following seven monsters:
Both purple monsters
One monster of each other type
Arrange the monsters in any way that you like so long as they don’t protrude 
over the edge of the arena and their stickers are face up (so that everyone 
can see what type of monster they are).

playing the game
Important rules in the monster arena:
 After placing the monster on the large pusher, you cannot touch this monster with your hands or anything other than the smaller pusher.
 However, if the monster falls off the pusher, you can place it back on the pusher and try once again to push it onto the arena.
 You may turn the monster arena, or even walk around the table — to gain access to roomier locations. Be careful not to touch any of the monsters. If a monster falls 
off that’s just bad luck.
 You must push the monster completely onto the arena; no part of the monster can protrude over the edge of the arena, and of course monsters cannot lie on top of 
one another! Your turn ends only once the monster lies completely on the arena.
Players take turns one after another in a clockwise direction. The player who last saw a monster starts the game.
If you can’t agree on the starting player, the youngest player begins. At the start of each turn, the active player rolls the die.
The game ends immediately when the die roll shows a monster that is no 
longer available in the general supply. 
All players now arrange their monster tokens in a line, and whoever has the 
longest line of monster tokens wins!
In case of a tie for the longest line, these players share the victory.
If you rolled a monster... 
 
 
 
 
 
Place the large monster pusher in front of you. Take the 
monster showing on the die from the general supply and 
place it on the light mark on the pusher. Lift the pusher with 
the monster on it in one hand, then take the smaller monster 
pusher in your other hand.
Now push the monster onto the arena using only these two pushers, but try 
not to push any other monsters off the arena while doing so!
If you rolled the question mark... 
 
 
 
 
Count each monster type in the general supply. Take one of 
whichever monster type occurs most frequently, place it on 
the big monster pusher, then try to push that monster onto 
the arena with the smaller pusher.
Note: In case of a tie between two or more types of monsters, you choose one of 
those kinds.
What if a monster falls off the arena? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a monster falls off the arena during the active player’s turn, all other players take one token of that monster type from the general supply and place it in front 
of them. If more than one monster falls from the arena, all other players take one token for each of the fallen monsters. Then remove the fallen monster(s) 
from the game. If a monster falls for some other reason — e.g., a cat jumps on the table — simply remove the fallen monster from the game.
After the active player’s turn is over, the next player in clockwise order rolls the die and takes their turn.
Which icon did you roll on the die?
end of the game

© Copyright 2015 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved