Rulebook

Puzzle Strike features 10 characters from the
Fantasy Strike universe. 
Fantasy Strike is an Olympic-style tournament that 
takes place in a fantasy martial arts world fractured 
by political conflict. Stone golem Garus Rook founded 
the tournament series to bring together the many 
provinces of the authoritarian Flagstone Kingdom and 
plant the idea of a different way of life.

Meanwhile, Grave Stormborne has gained notoriety 
throughout the kingdom as the only fighter to defeat 
Rook in a tournament match. Though Grave has no 
interest in matters of state, his fighting skills have 
piqued the interests of several factions.
And this is them playing a puzzle game!

Introduction
Puzzle Strike is a deck building game that simulates a puzzle game played amongst Fantasy Strike characters. In this puzzle game, 
gems fall into each player’s gem pile every turn, and whoever’s 
gem pile ﬁlls up ﬁrst loses. You combine gems in your own gem 
pile to create bigger gems, then crash those gems to break them 
apart and send them to other players. The more full your gem pile 
is, the closer you are to losing, but the more chips you get to draw 
each turn to make a comeback.
You start the game with a small “deck” of chips and you buy more 
chips as you play, allowing you to customize your deck as you go. 
You’ll probably pursue diﬀerent strategies from your opponents 
because you each play a diﬀerent character with diﬀerent 
strengths and weaknesses. You’ll deﬁnitely pursue diﬀerent 
strategies each game because the set of common chips you build 
your deck from (the “bank”) changes every game. The number of 
combinations is staggeringly large, so there’s a lot to explore.
Puzzle Strike has several modes: 2-player, 3/4-player free-for-all,
2 vs. 2 Team Battle, and Custom Clockwork Mode where you build your own characters.
Object of the Game
Your goal is to overﬂow your opponents’ gem piles with too many 
gems. If you end your turn with the gems in your gem pile totaling 
10 or more, you lose. (For example, four 1-gems, a 2-gem, and a 4-
gem total 10.)
Components
342 Chips
 
120 Puzzle Chips (24 x 5 copies)
 
30 Character Chips
 
20 Combines
 
16 Crash Gems
 
10 Double Crash Gems
 
64 1-gems
 
20 2-gems
 
16 3-gems
 
12 4-gems
 
24 Wounds
 
10 blank chips
4 bags
4 screens with 8-bit tips!
4 game boards
Break a 3-gem in
your gem pile...
to send 3 1-gems
to the opponent
At the end of your turn
if gems in your pile total 10 or more, you lose!
Rules version 7.3
“A card game played with chips instead of cards that 
simulates a puzzle game that simulates a ﬁghting game.”
QUICK START RULES
Pick your character, then put your starting chips in 
Set up the bank.
Shake your bag to shuﬄe, then draw 5 chips.
Ante a 1-gem from the bank to your gem pile each 
turn. (Or a bigger gem when Panic Time starts!)
Play action chips from your hand.
Crash Gems let you send gems from your gem 
pile to an opponent. You get money for doing so.
Buy at least one chip from the bank each turn.
Discard your hand, then draw 5 chips, plus any 
chips from the “height bonus” from having a full 
gem pile. The next player takes his turn unless....
If your gem pile totals 10 or more, you lose.
TURN STRUCTURE
1) Ante, 2) Action, 3) Buy, 4) Cleanup
Try the online tutorial at www.fantasystrike.com

 Combine 
Combines two gems in your gem pile 
into a single gem if the total is 4 or less. 
For example you can combine a 1-gem 
and 2-gem into a 3-gem. (Put the 1-gem 
and 2-gem in the bank, then put a 3-gem 
from the bank into your gem pile.)
The -$1 means you have less gem power 
(money) to spend during the buy phase.
The arrow on the Combine means you 
get to play another action afterwards.
 Crash Gem 
Crash Gems break gems in your gem pile 
and send them to any opponent you 
want. If you crash a 1-gem from your 
gem pile, you get rid of it and send it to 
an opponent’s gem pile. Crashing a 
larger gem is even better because it 
breaks apart into 1-gems and sends 
them all at once.
For example, if you crash a 3-gem, it 
splits into three 1-gems and all of them 
go to your chosen opponent’s gem pile. 
(Put the 3-gem back in the bank, then 
get three 1-gems from the bank to send 
to that opponent.)
The +$1 on the Crash Gem means you 
also get a little extra money to use 
during your buy phase.
 Double Crash Gem 
The Double Crash Gem works the same 
way as the Crash Gem except that you 
can break two Gem chips in your gem 
pile instead of just one, and you gain +$2 
of gem power that turn, instead of +$1.
If you have only one gem in your gem 
pile, it’s still legal to play a Double Crash 
Gem, though it would do nothing more 
than playing a regular Crash Gem in that 
case. You get $1 for each gem you break 
(normally that’s +$2 total).
Uncounter-Crashable!
4-gems are special. If you crash a 4-gem in your gem pile, no one can 
counter-crash it; they can’t even play a purple shield chip as a reaction 
because the 4-gem is just that powerful! (If you use a Double Crash Gem to 
break a 4-gem and another gem, the whole thing is uncounter-crashable.)
The Purple Chips
The three purple chips are the heart of the game. They allow you to combine the gems in your gem pile and to get rid of those 
gems and send them to your opponents.
Counter-Crashing
You can also use a Crash Gem to “counter-crash” 
gems in your gem pile when an opponent sends 
gems to you. When you do that you’re playing it as a 
reaction, indicated by the purple shield in the 
banner, and it doesn’t cost an action to play. When you 
counter-crash, your gems and your opponent’s gems collide 
in the air! Each 1-gem from your counter-crash negates a 1-
gem sent by your opponent. Negated gems go back to bank. 
Any left-over 1-gems are sent to the player who crashed 
fewer gems.
For example, if an opponent crashes a 2-gem at 
you and you counter-crash a 1-gem, you’d negate 
one of the two incoming 1-gems, and the other one 
lands in your pile. Because you got rid of a 1-gem in 
your pile, but received another 1-gem, your pile would 
remain the same size. If instead you counter-crash a 2-gem, 
you’d negate both incoming 1-gems. Or if you counter-crash 
a 3-gem, you’d negate both incoming 1-gems and send a 1-
gem to your opponent. Be careful—your opponent can 
counter-counter-crash that gem!
The Fine Print
Crash Gems and Double Crash Gems give you money when you use them on your own turn, even if you counter-counter-crash with 
them. They don’t give you money if you use them on someone else’s turn.
You can only play one reaction (such as a counter-crash) per “event.” If someone crashes a 3-gem at you, that’s one event, and you can 
only counter-crash it one time.
Counter-crashing can go on and on back and forth, but you can’t do it unless at least one gem is sent to you. And you can’t do it if 
someone crashed (or counter-crashed) a 4-gem, either.
You can play a Combine even if it doesn’t combine anything in order to get the +black arrow.

Gem Chips
Gems function diﬀerently when 
they are in your hand and when 
they’re in your gem pile. In your 
hand, they act as money that you 
use to buy chips from the bank 
each turn. Gems in your gem pile 
aren’t money though. They’re the kind 
of gems you want to crash to send to your 
opponents. You’ll have to add more gems to your pile each 
turn, and if it’s too full you lose the game.
Character Chips
There are 10 characters to choose 
from and each character has 3 
chips. Your character’s 3 chips start 
in your deck, and they tend to 
push your strategy in one direction 
or another. Find which characters 
match the playstyles you enjoy.
Character chips can’t be trashed.
Character chips cost one action to play (unless they have 
shields in the banner and are played as reactions).
Puzzle Chips
Puzzle chips all have a puzzle 
icon at the top, with their cost 
inside. Puzzle chips start as part 
of the bank, and you can add 
them to your deck as you play by 
buying them.
Puzzle chips cost one action to play.
Wounds
Wounds are useless chips that 
clog up your deck. Try to avoid 
them or get rid of them if you 
can. You must buy at least one 
chip per turn, and if you can’t 
aﬀord to buy anything else, you’ll 
have to buy a wound (they cost 0). If 
you have negative money, you still can 
(and must) buy a wound. You are only allowed to buy one 
wound per turn, though you wouldn’t want to buy more 
anyway unless you were trying to disrupt the game. If there 
are no wounds left in the bank, you don’t have to buy a chip 
at all that turn.
Other Types of Chips
Setup the Game
Screens and Game Boards
Each player takes a screen. If you’d rather put your chips on the table instead of holding them in your hand, you can hide them 
behind a screen. Each of the four screens illustrates a diﬀerent game rule, with retro 8-bit style!
Each player takes a game board. The boards mark the game zones for the gem pile, ongoing zone, and discard pile. It’s really 
important to keep the gems in your gem pile separate from everything else, and visible to other players. The ongoing zone is for 
chips that say “ongoing” on them: they stay in the ongoing zone until something says to discard them. The discard pile is for your 
discarded chips, and those chips will cycle back to your bag the next time you try to draw chips while your bag is empty.
Your Starting Deck
First, each player chooses a character 
from the 10 possible characters. Each 
character has exactly 3 Character chips 
with that character’s picture at the top. 
Take your 3 Character chips, 1 Crash 
Gem chip, and 6 1-gem chips and put 
them in your bag. This is your starting 
deck. Draw 5 chips for your opening 
hand.
Put your 10 
starting 
chips into 
x6

Setup: The Bank
Next, set up the bank. The bank consists of stacks of all the chips players are allowed to buy during the game, but you don’t use all 
the chips every game. There are 24 diﬀerent Puzzle chips, each with 5 copies. Select just 10 of these 24 stacks, put them in the 
bank, and leave the other 14 stacks of Puzzle chips in the 
box. The bank always contains the Gem, Purple, and Wound 
chips. For your ﬁrst game, we suggest these 10 stacks of 
Puzzle chips:
*These ten stacks are recommended for the ﬁrst game, but after that you can play any 10 stacks you want.
**Thatʼs the total number of 1-gems and Crash Gems but some will start in your deck.
This variation of starting stacks, along with the possible 
character choices in a 4-player game means that there are 
411,863,760 diﬀerent starting conditions in Puzzle Strike.
The Bank
Puzzle Chips -- 10 Different Stacks Each Game*
Gems, Purples & Wound -- Same 8 Stacks Every Game
x64**
x20
x16
x12
x20
x16**
x10
x24

Turn Structure
A, A, B, C are the four phases each turn: Ante, Action, Buy, 
Cleanup. Do each phase in order on your turn.
Ante Phase
At the start of the game, your gem pile is empty. At the 
beginning of your turn, take a 1-gem from the bank and 
put it in your gem pile.
If the game goes too long, you’ll enter Panic Time and you’ll 
have to ante more. See the next page for more info on that.
Action Phase
Each turn you may play one Action chip--any chip with a 
banner. To play an Action chip, put it face up on the table 
and do whatever it says. (It won’t go to your discard pile until 
the cleanup phase.)
Chips with on them let you play more actions that 
turn. For other colored arrows, see page 11.
If an eﬀect would make you draw a chip when your bag is 
empty, then put the chips from your discard pile (not 
including the chips you played to the table this turn) into 
your bag, shake your bag to shuﬄe them, then continue 
drawing.
Buy Phase
During the buy phase, you buy chips from the 
bank. You must buy at least one chip 
per turn. Bought chips go to your 
discard pile.
Play as many Gem chips as you want 
from your hand to the table (not to 
your gem pile!), then add their values to 
any +gem power you might have gotten 
during this turn’s action phase. Subtract $1 
for each Combine you played this turn. That total is how 
much money you may spend this turn. Gems in your gem 
pile do not count as money. 
You don’t have to spend all your money each turn, but you 
get no beneﬁt from unspent money because all your money--
spent or unspent--will go to your discard pile at the end of 
your turn. You can buy as many chips as you want each turn, 
as long as you can aﬀord to pay for them.
For example, if you had 6 money to spend this turn, you 
could buy any chip costing up to 6 or you could buy two 
chips costing 3. You could even buy a chip costing 1 and let 
your other 5 money go unused, if you wanted.
Wound chips are notable because 
they are the only chips in the bank 
that cost 0 to buy. Even if you have 
no money during a turn, you must 
still buy a Wound for 0. You can and 
must buy a Wound if you have less 
than 0 money. You can’t buy more 
than one wound per turn.
Remember that the chips you buy go 
directly to your discard pile and their 
eﬀects don’t trigger when you buy 
them. You’ll draw those chips later 
in the game though, so buying 
now is planning for the future.
Cleanup Phase
Make sure any chips you bought this 
turn are in your discard pile, put all the 
chips you played to the table this turn (including gem chips 
used as money) into your discard pile, and discard the chips 
in your hand. Then draw 5 chips.
The Height Bonus
The higher the sum of your gem pile is, the more extra chips 
you get to draw. Remember this shorthand: 
“If your gem pile has 3 / 6 / 9 in it, then draw an extra +1 / 
+2 / +3 chips.” In other words, if your gem pile totals 3, 4, or 
5, draw an extra chip. If it totals 6, 7, or 8, draw two extra 
chips instead. If it totals 9, draw 3 extra chips instead. These 
bonus draws are in addition to the usual 5 chips you draw 
during the cleanup phase.
Winning the Game
Whenever a player ends his turn with his gem pile totaling 10 
or more, he loses the game. In a 2p game, that’s it! In a 3p or 
4p game, the player with the lowest gem pile total wins 
the game.
If there is a tie for lowest total, the tied players each take one 
more turn, check for a lowest, and repeat until there is one 
winner.
Turn Phases
Cost

You have to ante bigger gems as the game goes on!
You’ll ﬁnd that this rule kicks in a lot less as you get 
better at the game.
In a 2-player game, the ﬁrst moment there are two 
simultaneously empty stacks in the bank, Panic Time is 
activated and everyone must ante 2-gems from then on. 
Even if chips later return to bank and ﬁll up some stacks, 
the game does not return to Normal Time. The ﬁrst 
moment there are three simultaneously empty bank 
stacks, Danger Time is activated and everyone antes 3-
gems from then on. The ﬁrst time four stacks are 
simultaneously empty, Deadly Time is activated and 
everyone must ante 4-gems from then on. Note that if 
you would ever ante a certain kind of gem that the bank 
is out of, you must ante it anyway with a stand-in gem of 
some sort.
For games with 3 or 4 players, the same sort of thing 
happens. The number of empty stacks needed to activate 
Panic Time is actually X, where X is the number of players. X+1, and X+2 empty stacks are when Danger Time and Deadly Time 
activate. The 2 vs. 2 Team Battle mode counts as 4-player game for purposes of the Panic Time rules.
Basic Strategy
Puzzle Strike’s strategy is a tricky thing, and you can go really wrong if you’re not careful. If you follow these tips as a beginner, it 
should get you on the right track to improving though. These tips are just a starting point, and when you understand more about 
each character and more about how the game changes with each diﬀerent bank, you’ll graduate past them. But you have to start 
somewhere!
Remember that your ultimate goal is to ﬁll up your opponents’ gem piles. Just buying gems for money all day won’t accomplish 
that. Money is a means to an end, and the value of buying more gems for money goes down as the game goes on. What matters a 
lot is your ability to combine and crash. Building a deck that can draw tons of chips and play tons of actions each turn means that 
you’ll access your combines and crashes even faster. And red chips can disrupt your opponents, which means you’ll be under a 
little bit less pressure.
Combining to build 4-gems in your gem pile is really good. Those are uncounter-crashable and they really help you win.
When you’re winning, generally don’t counter-crash. Doing so has the net eﬀect of slowing down the game by removing gems 
from the system. If you’re winning, let those gem piles ﬁll up so your opponents lose! If you are in trouble and need to slow the 
game down a bit, that’s a good time to counter-crash.
Buying Tips
You want about 1-2 Combines per Crash Gem in your deck. You usually want Combines more in the late game than early game.
You probably want another Crash Gem around every 7 buys. Sometimes you can delay the 2nd Crash Gem buy a bit.
Don't buy money if your pile totals more than six, and don't buy more than one purple if your pile totals less than three.
Try to get a couple 2-gems or a 2-gem and a 3-gem somewhere in your ﬁrst 7 buys. Or, you can ﬁll those slots with puzzle chips 
that help your money situation.
Think about how you’ll be able to play the chips you’re buying. You need +arrows to be able to play “enders” (meaning chips 
that themselves don’t give any +arrows). If you ﬁnd yourself with too many enders, they might have been poor buys. If you ﬁnd 
yourself with more +arrows than you can use, you are wasting that resource and you could have bought some more powerful 
enders.
Panic Time!

2 vs. 2 Team Battle Mode 
(4 Players)
Want to team up with a friend? In this mode, no one can get 
eliminated early, so all four players get to play the entire time. 
Form up your teams of two and get ready for Team Battle!
Shared Gem Pile. Teammates share a (normal sized) gem 
pile, but do not share other resources. Each player has his 
own hand, bag, and discard pile as usual. If you get +arrow or 
+$, etc., that goes to you only--it’s not shared with your 
teammate. Anything that says “you” in the game means “you,” 
so if you have a Secret Move on the table and your teammate 
buys a purple chip, it doesn’t get rid of your Secret Move 
because “you” didn’t buy that purple chip.
Ante Phase. Your team antes just one 1-gem each turn.
Action Phase. Teammates share their action phase. You can 
each play your actions in any order, and you each get your 
natural one action per turn. For example, you might play 
Roundhouse (and draw from it), then your teammate could 
play something, then you use Roundhouse's +arrow to play 
something else.
Buy Phase. Teammates share their buy phase. You can make 
your buys in any order. You must each buy at least one chip.
Counter-crashing. When the opposing team sends gems to 
your gem pile, either you or your teammate can counter-
crash. You choose which, but you both can’t react to the same 
“event.”
Winning. When a team ends their turn with their gem pile 
totaling 10 or more, they lose the game.
Make sure you work with your teammate to cover each 
other’s weaknesses, or amplify each other’s plans!
Free-For-All
(3 or 4 Players)
This mode is for 3 or 4 players. It’s kind of crazy and hectic 
because anyone can crash gems to anyone else. 
Winning the Game
Whenever a player ends his turn with his gem pile totaling 10 
or more, he loses the game. The player with the lowest gem 
pile total wins the game. Yes, really! If there is a tie for lowest 
total, the tied players each take one more turn, check for a 
lowest, and repeat until there is one winner.
Crashing
Whenever you send gems to someone, if they decline to 
counter-crash, each other player (in turn order, starting with 
the player after you) gets a chance to counter-crash for them. 
Only one counter-crash per “send,” as usual. If someone 
counter-crashes and sends at least one gem (but not a 4-
gem!), anyone has a chance to counter-counter-crash that, 
and so on. Crashes always break gems in your own gem pile, 
never any one else’s.
Dynamics
Let’s think about the strange dynamics that creates for a 
moment. If anyone is ever about to lose, there is always at 
least one other player who is suddenly on his side, wanting to 
save him. Only the player with the lowest pile actually wants 
the game to end. Alliances shift back and forth as the 
situations change, and you might even be able to convince 
other players to make the moves that will secretly help you, if 
you argue your case well enough. It’s kind of wet and wild, 
and everyone gets to play for the entire duration of the game.
Floating Gems
In an free-for-all game, you can’t “send” gems (by crashing or 
otherwise) if your gem pile totals 10 or more. Whenever you 
would send gems to an opponent on your turn, if your gem 
pile totals 10 or more, those gems “ﬂoat” in limbo. (The gems 
you broke in your gem pile are really gone right away 
though.) The ﬁrst moment your pile is 9 or less, your ﬂoating 
gems are sent to their targets. If you had two separate crash 
events waiting in limbo, they each get sent one at a time, and 
opponents can counter-crash each one as usual. If you end 
your turn with your gem pile totaling 10 or more, those 
ﬂoating gems are destroyed and don’t go to anyone. 
Last Man Standing Variant
If you like, you can try a last-man-standing variant. In this 
mode, when a player ends his turn with his gem pile totaling 
10 or more, he’s eliminated and the rest of the players keep 
playing until only one is left. Whenever a player is eliminated, 
increase the Panic Time level by one. (Meaning everyone 
antes a gem that’s one larger from then on.) This mode isn’t 
recommended because it suﬀers from the same problems of 
almost all free-for-all modes: teaming up to knock someone 
else out is too powerful. The oﬃcial rules above with no 
player-elimination don’t have that problem, but if you’re 
looking for a variant, your group could try last-man-standing.
Custom Clockwork Mode
In this mode, you can build your own clockwork soldier by 
mixing abilities from any characters. For a 2-player game, ﬁrst 
choose 9 character chips at random out of the entire set of 
30. For a 3 or 4 player game, choose 12 or 15 character chips, 
respectively. Each player will draft 3 chips from this pool. Take 
turns drafting one chip at a time, in the following order:
2-player game: 122112
3-player game: 123321123
4-player game: 123443211234
2v2 game: same as 4p where teams are player 1&4 vs. 2&3.
Caution: this mode is wild!

Stuﬀ on the Chips You Need to Know
There are a lot of symbols and terms on the chips. Here’s what they do:
Action
Black arrows allow you to 
play another Action chip 
of any color during the 
action phase this turn.
Chip
Draw an extra chip from 
Piggy Bank
During the cleanup phase, you 
may keep a chip in your hand 
that you didn’t play rather than 
discard it. If you do, draw one less 
chip at the end of the turn.
Gem Power
Get extra gem power 
(money) to spend during 
the buy phase this turn.
Colored arrows give you an action that you can only spend on chips with a banner of 
that same color. There are brown, purple, red, and blue arrows; each one gives an extra 
action just for chips that have the corresponding color of banner.
Icons in the Banners of Chips
Some Important Terms
Attack
Attacks cause negative 
eﬀects to other players.
React
Each player can react once 
to each that would 
aﬀect him or her.
Crash Sphere
These appear only on 
Combines, Crash Gems, 
and Double Crash Gems.
Crash React
You can only play this 
when an opponent sends 
gems to a gem pile, but 
not if your opponent 
crashed a 4-gem (4-gems 
are too powerful!)
Trashing a Chip
To trash a chip means to 
return it to the bank. 
Trashing is a way to make 
your deck more eﬃcient 
by getting rid of chips you 
don’t need anymore.
Gaining a Chip
To gain a chip means to 
put it in your discard pile--
not your hand. You’ll draw 
it later though, don’t 
worry.
Main and Reaction
Main refers to what the 
chip can do when you use 
it during the action phase 
of your own turn.
Reaction refers to what it 
can do in response to 
something an opponent 
does. Reactions don't cost 
an action to play. 
You can only play one 
reaction to any given 
event and you discard a 
reaction on use.
Ante
Ante means to take a Gem 
chip from the bank and 
put it into your gem pile 
(or someone else’s if a chip 
says to do that). Players 
can’t purple shield react to 
this, as it’s not a “send.”
On Top of Your Bag
Chips put “on top of your 
bag” don’t go inside it, and 
when you next draw chips, 
you draw these ﬁrst.
Ongoing
It costs an action to play an 
“ongoing” chip to the table. 
Once it’s there, you get the 
beneﬁt each turn without 
paying an action.
Exclamation
The mightiest of all chips. 
Look on it and despair.

Playing Online
Visit www.fantasystrike.com to play Puzzle Strike and other Sirlin Games online. You could even try the online tutorial for Puzzle 
Strike there instead of reading this rulebook. We’re always looking for more players, and it’s free to play, so try it out. You’ll ﬁnd 
forums, leaderboards, and a helpful community there, too.
Also you can visit the oﬃcial store at sirlingames.com, ﬁnd us on Facebook, and look up Puzzle Strike on boardgamegeek.com.
Tournaments
Don’t be fooled by Puzzle Strike’s saccharine exterior--it’s a deep, complex game balanced for intense tournament play. This Third 
Edition is the evolution of the game after years of tournaments, reﬁned and smoothed out. Some games are designed to be fun 
for the ﬁrst few plays without much thought put into whether they can hold up to serious scrutiny, but this is a game you can play 
long-term on a competitive level if you devote yourself to it. It’s diﬃcult to create a game that meets those high standards, and 
substantially more diﬃcult when it contains so many diﬀerent characters who all have to be fair against each other. And hopefully 
you’ll enjoy Puzzle Strike that much more, if you ﬁnd we’ve met that challenge.
Tournament Rules
The 2-player game mode is usually used in tournaments.
Choosing Characters
Characters should be chosen in a double-blind fashion, meaning each player secretly chooses his character, then both players 
simultaneously reveal their choices. Hopefully you have enough Puzzle Strike sets on hand to play “mirror matches” of same-
character versus same-character. If you don’t and both players want to play the same character, ﬂip a coin. The winner gets the 
character and the loser then chooses another character and whether to play ﬁrst or second.
Choosing the Bank
After characters are chosen, determine the 10 puzzle chips for the bank randomly.
Loserʼs Choice
Tournament matches are usually played as the best of 2 out of 3 games. That means the ﬁrst player to win two games wins the 
match. If you lose a game, you play ﬁrst in the next game of the match and you can exercise at most one of these options:
1) Switch to a diﬀerent character.
2) Remove a puzzle chip stack of your choice from the bank. Replace it with a diﬀerent puzzle chip stack of your choice from 
outside the game. You cannot switch in a stack that was previously switched out during the match.
3) Create an entirely new bank randomly.
You can use option 1 if you think you can get an advantage in a particular character matchup. Be careful though, knowing how to 
play a character well is often more important than a theoretical advantage in matchups. Option 2 is good if there’s a particular 
chip in the bank that your opponent’s character beneﬁts from too much, or if there’s a particular chip your character really likes 
that isn’t in the bank. It’s especially good if you can pull oﬀ both of those at the same time! Option 3 is rarely used, but if you get 
into a situation where there are too many chips that beneﬁt your opponent’s character, sometimes it’s best to try to get rid of all 
those chips at once by re-rolling the whole bank.
You don’t have to exercise any of these options. If you want to play again with the same characters and same bank, go ahead. The 
winner of the last game doesn’t get any of these options though, he has to go along with whatever you choose.
Puzzle Strike: simple, light game for kids? Or intense competitive game for analytical players? You decide!

Banner Colors
These are all the colors of the banners across the tops of chips: 
brown, red, blue, purple, gray (wound), and gold. If a chip has more 
than one color in the banner, such as Really Annoying’s blue and red 
banner, then it counts as all those colors.
Do Things In Order
When a chip tells you to do more than one thing, do those things in 
the normal reading order: left to right, top to bottom. If a chip tells 
you to choose two or more things to do, ﬁrst choose, then do your 
choices in any order.
Do Everything You Can
If it’s impossible to do everything a chip tells you to do, then do as 
much as you can. Don’t move on to playing other chips until you’ve 
done everything you can on the current chip.
Simultaneous Eﬀects
If a chip aﬀects multiple players and the order matters, resolve the 
eﬀects in turn-order, starting with the player whose turn it is.
Reaction Timing
If an opponent plays a chip then you play a reaction, your reaction 
resolves ﬁrst, then the opponent’s eﬀect resolves. Some reactions 
say “After you’re attacked…,” which means the attack resolves ﬁrst.
Discard Piles are Public
All discard piles are public information and any player may look 
through any other player’s discard pile at any time.
Running Out of Chips
If a stack in the bank runs out of chips, tough luck, you can’t buy any 
more of them and eﬀects that would let you gain those chips don’t 
do anything. If you would ever ante a gem when the bank is out of 
that kind of gem, ante a stand-in gem instead. If there are no 
wounds left in the bank and you can’t aﬀord to buy any other chips, 
you don’t have to buy a chip at all that turn.
More Rules
Puzzle Chips
Chip Damage
If a player discards a Purple Orb chip instead 
of two chips, that chip must literally have a 
purple orb printed in the banner. Players can 
choose to “discard two chips” even if they 
have just 1 or 0 chips in hand.
Combos Are Hard
The bank contains Puzzle chips, Gem chips, 
Purple chips, and Wounds. Remember that 
“gain” means to put the chips in the discard 
pile. You can’t gain Master Puzzler with this.
Draw Three
So yeah … you draw three chips.
Gem Essence
The trashed gem chip goes back to the bank. 
You can use either the red arrow OR the blue 
arrow to play Really Annoying.
Gems to Gemonade
This only works when gems are “sent” to you. 
Crashing or counter-crashing gems in a gem 
pile “sends” gems but other operations like 
the ante from Sneak Attack do not.
You can’t counter crash AND play this chip as 
a reaction to the same “send” because you 
can only play one reaction per event.
It’s a Trap
You can trap any kind of stack in the bank: a 
puzzle, gem, purple, or wound stack. For the 
trap token, use a spare coin or any other 
object you have laying around.
It’s Combo Time
You pretty much just read the chip.
Iron Defense
You can use the Crash Gem on your own 
turns or use it to counter-crash when an 
opponent sends gems to you. After you use 
the Crash Gem, it goes to your discard pile as 
usual. It costs an action to use the Crash 
Gem. You can use the Crash Gem the same 
turn you get it if you have the arrows for it.
Notes on Speciﬁc Chips
These banks will work for any mode. 2p, 3p, 
4p, or Team Battle.
First Game
Combos Are Hard, Draw Three, Gem Essence, 
Knockdown, One of Each, One-Two Punch, 
Risky Move, Sale Prices, Self-Improvement, 
Sneak Attack.
Lots of Attacks
Chip Damage, It’s a Trap, Knockdown, Mix-
Master, Really Annoying, Recklessness, Self-
Improvement, Sneak Attack, Stolen Purples, 
Thinking Ahead.
No Attacks
Draw Three, Gems to Gemonade, Iron 
Defense, One of Each, One-Two Punch, 
Recklessness, Roundhouse, Sale Prices, Secret 
Move, Training Day.
Combo Crazy
Chip Damage, Draw Three, Master Puzzler, It’s 
Combo Time, One of Each, One-Two Punch, 
Recklessness, Roundhouse, Sale Prices, Sneak 
Attack.
Master Puzzler
Combos are Hard, Draw Three, Gems to 
Gemonade, Knockdown, Master Puzzler, Mix-
Master, Risky Move, Roundhouse, Self-
Improvement, Training Day.
Recommended Banks

Knockdown
The restriction about playing purple shields 
ends at the end of the turn you play 
Knockdown. If the chosen opponent has 
some way of playing a purple shield chip 
NOT as a reaction, they can still do that.
Master Puzzler
You cannot play or gain Gem chips with this. 
You cannot play chips from your hand in the 
middle of resolving Master Puzzler. 
Remember to put the chips you “gain” with 
Master Puzzler into your discard pile. You 
don’t gain a chip if it trashes as part of its 
eﬀect, such as It’s a Trap. If the bank is out of 
a certain chip, you can’t use Master Puzzler to 
play that chip.
Mix-Master
This chip is both red and purple, so if you 
have either a red or purple arrow from 
another chip, you can play this. An example 
use is if an opponent’s largest gem (in his 
gem pile) is a 3-gem, he splits it into three 1-
gems. If an opponent has more than one 
Gem chip tied for largest in his gem pile, he 
only splits one of them. You don’t have to 
suﬀer -$1 to combine the gems. You still get 
to combine gems in your pile even if the 
opposing piles have all 1-gems, and thus 
nothing to split.
One of Each
One-Two Punch
Check page 11 to see what the symbols do.
Really Annoying
This chip is both red and blue, so if you have 
either a red or blue arrow from another chip, 
you can play the main action of this chip. 
When played as a reaction, it counts as a blue 
shield and a red ﬁst, so other players can 
react to the reaction with Really Annoying or 
Self-Improvement, for example.
Recklessness
Wow, three arrows!
Risky Move
If you put a 4-gem from your hand to your 
gem pile, you don’t get to gain a gem from 
the bank. There’s no such thing as a 5-gem.
Roundhouse
Simple and good.
Sale Prices
Treat the on-sale chips in the bank as if their 
costs really are lower. For example, Training 
Day looks at the discounted cost, not the cost 
printed on the chip.
Secret Move
You get the +piggy-bank even on the turn 
you play this chip. You only get the +arrow 
the same turn you play it though. Only 
discard this from the table if you buy a 
Combine, Crash Gem or Double Crash Gem 
chip.
Self-Improvement
It can’t trash itself. You can only play one 
reaction to any given event. The reaction is 
unusual in that its eﬀect happens after the 
attack ﬁnishes resolving.
Sneak Attack
The ante comes from the bank. In a 2v2 
game, the other team only has to ante one 
time.
Stolen Purples
The opponent discards only the chips that 
actually have purple spheres printed in their 
banners. You must steal a purple orb chip if 
possible. If there aren’t any chips to steal, you 
don’t trash this chip, but you must trash it if 
you do steal a chip.
Thinking Ahead
For the main action, if you buy several chips 
in a turn, it’s up to you how many of them to 
put on top of your bag. For the reaction, you 
must trash Thinking Ahead.
Training Day
It can’t trash itself or a character chip. The 
chip you gain can’t cost less than the trashed 
chip.
Character Chips
Grave - Reversal
This only works when gems 
are “sent” to you. Crashing or 
counter-crashing gems in a 
gem pile “sends” gems 
but other operations 
like Sneak Attack do not.
You can’t counter crash 
AND play this chip as a 
reaction to the same 
“send” because you can only play one 
reaction per event.
Grave - Martial Mastery
It can’t trash itself or other character chips.
Grave - Versatile Style
Enjoy.
Jaina - Playing with Fire
Jaina - Burning 
Vigor
Jaina - Unstable Power
Just like a Double Crash, this does give you 
money if used on your turn. If someone plays 
Stolen Purples and you have Unstable Power 
in your hand, you don’t have to discard it 
because it doesn’t have a purple sphere in 
the banner.
Midori - Dragon Form
bank. If the bank is out of 
the gem type you need to 
ante, then ante a proxy 
gem instead.
Dragon Form does stop 
opponents from reacting 
with Crash Gems, Double 
Crash Gems, Gems to Gemonade, 
Grave’s Reversal, and Rook’s Stone Wall. 
During Deadly Time, you still ante a 4-gem.
Midori - Rigorous Training
“Gained” chips go to your discard pile. This 
chip has a shield in the banner because it’s a 
reaction. It’s a brown shield rather than blue 
because it doesn’t react to an opponent’s 
attack.
Midori - Purge Bad Habits
The “gained” chip comes from the bank.
Setsuki - Speed of 
the Fox
It’s pretty self-
explanatory!
Setsuki - Bag 
of Tricks
Have fun.
Setsuki - Double-take
If you gain extra actions (+arrows) with this 
chip, you can’t actually use them because 
your action phase ends before you can. If you 
Double-take an attack, each instance 
requires a separate reaction.

Rook - Stone Wall
The incoming gems are 
negated, so put them 
in the bank instead 
of in your gem 
pile.
You can’t counter 
crash AND play 
this chip as a 
reaction to the same 
“send” because you 
can only play one reaction per event.
Rook - Big Rocks
For example, you could trash a 2-gem from 
your hand (return it to the bank), then take a 
3-gem from the bank and put it in your hand. 
Trashing a 4-gem would be a bad move 
though; you wouldn’t get anything for it.
Rook - Strength of Earth
If you can legally combine, you must. If you 
can’t legally combine, you still get the 
+brown arrow. You don’t have to pay -$1 to 
combine this way.
DeGrey - 
Pilebunker
If an opponent has 
more than one Gem 
chip tied for largest in 
his hand, he only 
trashes one of them.
DeGrey - No 
More Lies
Trashed chips go to the 
DeGrey - Troublesome Rhetoric
You get either the top two or bottom two 
thingies.
Valerie - Three Colors
It goes nicely with 
Chromatic Orb!
Valerie - Chromatic 
Orb
This chip is purple, 
brown, red, and 
blue, so an arrow of 
any of those colors will let you 
play it. You can’t use the crash eﬀect as a 
reaction, but others can react to it with a 
purple shield. You don’t get $1 from this.
Valerie - Creative Thoughts
Enjoy the chip.
Geiger - Research & 
Development
If you don’t ﬁnd any 
Purple Orb chips in your 
bag, you can’t complete 
the exchange. In this case, 
ignore the text on the chip 
and just gain +action. 
Geiger - Future 
Sight
Using the +piggy-banks are optional, so you 
can use neither, one or both to keep 0, 1, or 2 
chips for next turn. Drawing two chips when 
you play Future Sight is mandatory though.
Geiger - It’s Time for the Past
Puzzle chips are the chips with a black puzzle 
piece icon at the top.
Lum - Jackpot
You can choose a 
Combine, Crash Gem, 
or Double Crash Gem. 
Yeah you probably 
want that Double 
Crash Gem, huh? 
Play it then 
“gain” it by 
putting it in 
your discard pile.
Lum - Panda’s Bargain
If you bought more than one puzzle chip, 
you only get to draw one chip total.
Lum - Living on the Edge
The check of your gem pile size only happens 
the moment you play this chip--if your gem 
pile size changes later in the turn, it doesn't 
matter.
Argagarg - Hex of Murkwood
Each opponent chooses 
whether to discard two 
wounds or gain a wound. If 
they can’t discard two 
wounds, they must gain 
a wound. If there are no 
wounds in the bank, 
they don’t gain one.
Argagarg - Bubble 
Shield
The ongoing eﬀect of the bubble triggers 
only after your chance to counter-crash. It 
will not trigger if you counter-crash all 
incoming gems. If some gems are still 
incoming, the bubble’s eﬀect is not optional. 
The bubble negates only one of the 1-gems 
sent to you, and triggers even if the 
opponent crashes a powerful 4-gem at you. 
You don’t get to counter-crash the rest of 
that 4-gem though.
The reaction half of the chip can only be 
played when the chip is in your hand, not 
when it’s “ongoing” on the table.
Argagarg - Protective Ward
This aﬀects you as well as other players. This 
applies to any chip eﬀect that says to 
“combine” gems in a gem pile, including 
Combine, Mix-Master, Strength of Earth and 
the expansion chips One True Style, 
Combinatorics, and Option Select (when 
Option Select targets any of those other 
chips). You must discard the puzzle chips 
before getting the eﬀects of the chip saying 
to combine gems. If you don’t discard a 
puzzle chip, you don't combine gems, but 
you do get any other eﬀects written on that 
chip, like +arrows.
Special Thanks
Long Vo - Character illustrations.
Conor “BT” Town - 8-bit art.
The entire sirlin.net crew. Playtesters:
Michael “Sotek” Ralston, David 
“ChumpChange” Rayko, Josh 
“rabid_schnauzer” Kablack, Don “Aesa” Ding, 
Alex “vivafringe” Chen, Brian “garcia1000” Lui, 
Christos “CrystalChaos” Romanas, Dan "Dan" 
Emmons, Andy “ApolloAndy” Wong, Gerrit 
“Star Slayer” Gottschalk, and Jonathan 
“SteelCoil” Chi.
Louis “Thelo” Paquin - Online version at 
www.fantasystrike.com.
You - Supporting independent game 
development.

www.sirlingames.com
www.fantasystrike.com
Copyright © 2010 - 2012 Sirlin Games