MARCEL-ANDRÉ CASASOLA MERKLE
COMPONENTS
An adventurous 
treasure hunt 
for 2 to 5 players, 
ages 8 and up
THE STORY
After hearing the tale of the lost Pyramid of Pengqueen, four 
brave adventurers set out to claim its magical treasures. Months 
of searching led the penguins to a secret entrance hidden behind 
some pots and pans in the kitchen of their old school. They 
followed the path down to a massive underground cave, in the 
middle of which stood the Pyramid of Pengqueen, its entrance 
glowing mysteriously. 
As soon as the penguins entered the pyramid, its gate slammed 
shut behind them, sending a resounding echo down the 
darkened halls. The echo slowly faded away, and a new sound 
took its place… the ominous sound of something shuffling 
off in the distant shadows... then a voice whispered from 
the darkness...
“Foolish penguinsss, I may be old, but I still have the powerrr 
to drag you down into my tomb for all eternityyy.”
The Mummy of Pengqueen has stirred from its slumber, and 
now the penguins must move fast! Only the correct collection 
of magical objects will break the mummy’s curse and allow the 
adventurers to escape with their lives (and as much treasure 
as they can carry).
1 magnetic 
board
1 magnetic mummy figure 
(in two parts)
4 magnetic treasure hunter 
pieces (red, green, blue 
and yellow)
12 life tokens with torch 
symbols (3 in each 
player color)
5 treasure hunter dice 
(white)
1 mummy die 
(black)
23 treasure cards 
(5 in yellow, green, grey, and 
4 in red and purple)
2 small game inserts 
(1 for the mummy side, 
1 for the treasure hunter side)

OBJECT OF THE GAME
One player takes the role of the mummy, all other players play 
as the treasure hunters. Each treasure hunter must retrieve 
a unique set of five magical treasures from the pyramid. 
A treasure hunter immediately wins the game as soon as they 
have retrieved all five of their treasures.
The mummy wins the game by catching treasure hunters and 
taking their life tokens. Each time the mummy catches a treasure 
PREPARATION
The magnetic board is put in the middle of the box insert. The 
board shows the same map of the pyramid on both sides with 
some slight differences.
Agree which player will take on the role of the 
mummy this game, and then position the 
box so that the mummy player sits on the 
Mummy’s side of the board (marked by the 
Mummy icon) and all the treasure hunters sit 
on the other side.
The mummy player may never look at the treasure hunter side 
during the game.
On the mummy’s side, place 
the mummy game insert 
on top of the mummy’s side 
of the box insert (with the 
bridge in the middle). Place 
the treasure hunter game 
insert on the treasure hunter 
side of the board (with the 
snow-covered steps leading 
up to the entrance).
The mummy player places both pieces of his magnetic mummy 
figure on the space with a picture of a sarcophagus, one piece 
on each side of the board. He places the mummy’s head (the 
larger piece) on his side of the board (on the picture of the 
glowing sarcophagus), and he places the smaller piece (the 
magnetic disc) on the treasure hunter’s side.
It is very important that the larger 
mummy piece is placed on the 
mummy side of the board and 
the adventurer tokens are placed 
on the adventurer side. Otherwise, 
the magnets will not work properly.
Each treasure hunter player 
chooses a color, takes all three 
life tokens in that color, and 
adds their matching magnetic 
treasure hunter piece on their 
side of the board, onto the 
treasure hunter starting space 
(with the single arrow pointing 
into the pyramid).
Separate the treasure cards into five piles, based on the colors 
on their backs. Then shuffle each of the piles separately. Give one 
card from each pile to each treasure hunter. These cards represent 
the magical objects that each player must find to win the game. 
These cards should be kept hidden from the other players.
The mummy player places their mummy die within reach, and the 
treasure hunters place their dice nearby. 
(Return any remaining items back to the box, and the game 
is ready to begin!)
hunter, they take one life token from 
that player. They win as soon as they 
have collected a number of life tokens 
based on the number of treasure hunters 
in the game:
2 treasure hunters: 4 life tokens
3 treasure hunters: 6 life tokens
4 treasure hunters: 7 life tokens

HOW TO PLAY
Treasure Hunter Turn
On their turn, treasure hunters take the following steps in order:
1. Reset the dice (optional)
2. Roll the dice (mandatory)
3. Move (mandatory)
4. Play a treasure card (optional)
1. Reset the dice
If, after the first turn of the game, any of the dice have been 
set aside with their mummy side showing, then the player may 
choose to reset all the dice before rolling them for their turn. 
In this case, the mummy player immediately takes a special 
interrupting turn (see the section on this later in the rules). After 
the mummy player has taken their turn, the treasure hunter player 
continues on to step 2 with all five dice available.
2. Roll the dice
The player rolls all the treasure hunter dice available which are 
not showing a mummy. After each roll, any dice rolled showing 
a mummy must be set aside, and are unavailable until a player 
resets the dice on a future turn. If, after rolling, the player 
is satisfied with their result, they may proceed on to the next step. 
Otherwise, they may choose to roll all the available dice again. 
The player may repeat this process as often as desired, setting 
aside any dice showing mummies after each roll.
Remember: you can only roll the dice which do not show 
a mummy!
3. Move
The player looks at the dice they rolled and chooses one of them, 
the result of which (1, 2, 3, 4, or arrow) is announced to the 
mummy player, and then applied to their piece. 
If the player chooses a die with a number, they must move their 
treasure hunter piece the corresponding number of spaces. They 
may pass through spaces with other treasure hunters (counting 
each space as one movement), but they may never end their turn 
on the same space as another treasure hunter. 
The following additional rules must also be followed:
A piece may only be moved horizontally or vertically (never 
diagonally). 
Changing direction, including backtracking, is allowed. During 
a turn, the same space may be entered several times by going 
back and forth, each time counting as one additional movement.
A piece must be moved the full number of spaces chosen. If this 
cannot be done, the player must roll again (or choose another die, 
if one is available to them).
If the player chooses a die with the arrow, they must move 
their piece in a straight line (horizontally or vertically) until 
it hits an obstacle or another player’s treasure hunter. The 
current treasure hunter then ends their movement on the space 
immediately in front of the obstacle / treasure hunter. A treasure 
hunter may not end their movement on the same spot they 
started on when choosing this option.
Obstacles include: walls, the treasure hunter starting space, the 
mummy’s sarcophagus, and the current space of the mummy 
figure. Obstacles may not be entered or crossed as part 
of a treasure hunter’s movement.
(Please Note: the rules for 2 players are detailed 
at the back of the book.)
The treasure hunter to the left of the mummy player 
begins the game and play continues around the 
table in a clockwise direction.
4. Play a treasure card
If a treasure hunter ends their move on one of the symbols 
matching their treasure cards, then they may reveal their card 
and place it face up for everyone to see (including the mummy). 
If a player plays their last card, then they immediately win 
the game.
Example of a treasure hunter’s turn:
It is the blue player’s turn. From earlier 
turns there are two dice showing 
mummies. Blue decides not to reset 
and therefore rolls only the three dice 
remaining without mummies. He rolls 
a mummy, a 1, and a 2.
He sets aside the mummy 
die. He does not like his result, 
so he chooses to roll again. He rolls 
the two remaining dice. His choices 
are now a 1 and a 4.
Blue announces that he will move 
four spaces. He moves to the red 
jewel. Because he has the treasure 
card with the red jewel, he then 
places it face up on the table. This 
ends his turn. Next, the red player 
is up and decides to reset the dice.
The mummy player then takes 
an interrupting turn, but the red 
player will get to roll all five dice 
afterwards.
Normal Mummy Turn
Taken after each treasure hunter has taken a turn:
The mummy player rolls the mummy die and adds the result to the 
number of treasure hunter dice set aside with mummies on them. 
This total indicates how many spaces the mummy may move. The 
mummy may only move horizontally and vertically. They may not 
move through walls, and may not move into the treasure hunter 
starting space or back into their sarcophagus.
Mummy Turn

The treasure hunter 
player wins when 
they have played 
all 10 treasure cards. 
The mummy player 
wins when they have 
collected 3 life tokens 
from the treasure 
hunter player.
Remember treasure hunters: 
play honestly and do not cheat. 
For a real adventurer it is a matter 
of honor in the end!
What happens if all five treasure hunter dice show a mummy side?
The player loses their turn. Their piece stays where it is. The next 
player has no choice but to reset the dice, which will give the 
mummy player an interrupting turn.
What happens if a treasure 
hunter is completely 
surrounded by obstacles 
on their turn?
If it is impossible for a treasure 
hunter to move on their turn 
because they are enclosed 
on three sides by walls and 
on the fourth side by the 
mummy, then the player 
must announce this to the 
mummy player. They do not 
get to take a turn. They may 
not reset or roll the dice. The 
game proceeds to the next 
player’s turn.
After the mummy player catches them, on their turn, can 
a treasure hunter leave the mummy’s sarcophagus in either of the 
two directions (breaks in the walls)?
Yes.
Magnet tip: In order for the magnets to work well, pieces should 
always be placed in the middle of their spaces. If the mummy 
enters a space with a treasure hunter, and the piece is not “caught” 
by the mummy’s magnet, the treasure hunter still counts as being 
captured.
Mummy tip: The mummy player may ask to look at the backs 
of the treasure hunters’ remaining treasure cards in order to see 
which colors each treasure hunter still needs to collect.
Treasure hunter tip: Treasure hunters should play to help 
themselves in the early part of the game, but begin to help each 
other later on if the mummy threatens to win the game.
If the mummy enters a space with a treasure hunter, then that 
treasure hunter has been caught. The turn ends immediately, 
and the mummy remains on the space where it caught the 
treasure hunter. The treasure hunter piece is moved to the 
mummy’s sarcophagus and the treasure hunter must give a life 
token to the mummy. When a treasure hunter has lost their last life 
token, they are out of the game. 
Important! After a normal mummy turn the treasure hunter dice 
showing mummies remain that way. They can only be reclaimed 
by a treasure hunter choosing to take the Reset action.
Interrupting Turns
Taken after a treasure hunter has chosen the Reset action:
The mummy moves as many spaces as there are dice set aside 
showing mummy symbols. The mummy die is not rolled. 
Otherwise the rules are the same as for a normal mummy turn. 
After the mummy’s turn, the treasure hunter who chose to reset 
the dice gets to resume their turn and rolls all the treasure hunter 
dice (step 2).
The game ends immediately when either:
A treasure hunter has played their last treasure card. In this case, 
that treasure hunter wins the game.
OR 
The mummy has collected a number of life tokens, based on the 
number of players in the game:
2 treasure hunters: 4 life tokens
3 treasure hunters: 6 life tokens
4 treasure hunters: 7 life tokens
In this case the mummy wins the game.
END OF THE GAME
Games with two players use the following changes to the rules:
 
The treasure hunter player controls two different treasure hunter 
pieces and the life tokens of both. They draw 10 treasure cards 
(2 cards of each color). A normal turn is taken for each piece 
(always in the same order). The player’s treasure cards can 
be played by either one of the pieces (as long as they are on top 
of the correct treasure). The mummy player takes a turn after both 
treasure hunters have had a turn.
THE GAME FOR 
TWO PLAYERS
SPECIAL SITUATIONS 
AND ADVICE
Author: Marcel-André Casasola Merkle
Illustrations: Reinis Pētersons
Brain Games Publishing SIA
Bruņinieku 39, Riga, LV‑1001, Latvia
T. (+371) 67334034
info@Brain‑Games.com
www.Brain‑Games.com
© 2018 Brain Games Publishing SIA