Q.E. (Quantitative Easing) is a monetary policy in which a central bank prints new money 
in order to buy government bonds or other financial assets to stimulate the economy.
stats
3-5 players
30 minutes
contents
21 Company Tiles
5 Industry Tokens 
5 Bid Tiles
5 Player Score Boards
5 Dry Erase Markers
1 First Auctioneer Token
1 Rulebook
Give each player a Bid Tile and a Player Score 
Board of one nation along with a Dry Erase 
Marker. Flip the Player Score Board to the 
correct side based on the number of players. 
(The UK is only used in a 5-player game.)
Shuffle the Industry Tokens and deal one to 
each player. Players look at their Industry 
Token but keep it hidden from other players.
(Government is only used in a 5-player game.)
Remove Company Tiles based on player count:
Shuffle the Company Tiles face down into 
one stack.
The player who most recently visited a bank 
is the first Auctioneer and takes The First 
Auctioneer Token. This player keeps the 
token for the whole game. It is just used to 
remind players when a new round begins.
Agriculture | Housing | Government | Finance | Manufacturing
 In a 3- or 4-player game, remove: 
•	 the 3 x UK Company Tiles, 
•	 the JP Government Tile, 
•	 the CN Government Tile. 
There will be 16 Company Tiles in play.
 In a 5-player game, remove: 
•	 the 4 x 1 VP Company Tiles, 
•	 the JP Agriculture Tile, 
•	 the CN Financial Tile. 
There will be 15 Company Tiles in play.
setup
objective
Players represent nations who are bidding to bail out companies that are 
“too big to fail” during the 2008 economic crisis. 
At the end of the game, players score points based on the companies they 
have collected and the player with the most points wins. However, the player 
who spent the most money during the game is eliminated from competition. 
They have inflated their currency and trashed their economy.

•	 Examines all the Bid Tiles.
•	 Announces which player submitted the highest bid 
(the Auctioneer is eligible to win).
•	 Secretly writes the winning bid amount on the back of 
the Company Tile.
•	 Gives the Company Tile to the highest bidder, keeping 
the bid hidden, but leaving the Tile face up for all to see.
If the Auctioneer made the highest bid, they must record it 
openly for all to see. 
(Note: Players may always check the amounts of their own 
previously-won Company Tiles.)
3. Award the Company Tile
(Skip in a 3 player game)
•	 Receive 2 victory points (VP).
•	 Mark off the 2 VP space for their zero bid for this round.
•	 Each player may only score the 2 VP bonus for bidding 
zero once per round.
(A “round” consists of all players being the Auctioneer one 
time. A new round begins each time the player with the First 
Auctioneer Token holds an auction.)
•	 The Auctioneer reveals any zero bids
4. Reveal zero bids and record VP
Players who bid zero:
There are 16 turns in a 3 or 4 player game and 15 turns in a 5 player 
game. Each turn a Company is auctioned. Players will bid on the 
Company and whoever bids the highest is awarded the Company Tile.
Gameplay
each turn has 5 phases:
1. Opening Bid
•	 Reveals the top Company Tile from the stack and places it 
face up on the table.
•	 Writes the amount they are willing to pay for the Company 
on their Bid Tile and places it face up in front of them.
•	 Must bid a positive, whole number.
•	 Simultaneously write their bids for the Company on 
their Bid Tiles.
•	 Hand them to the Auctioneer without revealing them 
to other players.
•	 May bid any positive whole number, or zero, but may 
not bid the same as the Auctioneer.
2. Secret Bids
Then all other players:

For each of your Company Tiles that matches your nation, you score:
For each industry, score based on the number of Companies you own in 
that industry:
Note: Your Company Tiles and your face down Industry Token are both included 
when scoring this category. You may score in multiple Industry types.
For each set of Companies containing only unique industries, you score:
Note: Your Company Tiles and your face down Industry Token are both included 
when scoring this category.You may score multiple times, using multiple sets.
Add together all VP shown on the faces of your Company Tiles.
2 VP for each zero bid (max 1 per round).
Add all victory points earned so far to calculate your subtotal.
Add any victory points (VP) scored to your subtotal to create your grand total. 
The player with the most points wins (among players not eliminated).
1 VP for 1 matching Company, 3 VP for 2, 6 VP for 3,10 VP for 4
 3 VP for 1 matching Company, 6 VP for 2, 10 VP for 3
 4 VP for 3 different Industries, 8 VP for 4
8 VP for 3 different Industries, 12 VP for 4, 17 VP for 5
Nationalization
Monopolization
Diversification
Companies
Zero Bids
Subtotal
Grand Total
Players add up the values on the back of their Company Tiles to calculate their 
total spent. The player with the highest spent is eliminated (ties eliminate all 
tied players). The player who spent the least scores VP (in case of a tie, all tied 
players score full points):
total spent
7 VP
6 VP
3 VP for 2 matching Companies, 6 VP for 3, 10 VP for 4
6 VP for 2 matching Companies, 10 VP for 3, 16 VP for 4
final scoring
All of your Company Tiles and your Industry Tiles count independently for 
each individual category. Every tile may be used in every category, but only 
once in each category. Write on your Player Score Board to help calculate 
your score. 
When all Company Tiles have been awarded, the game ends.
End of Game
•	 Gives the Bid Tiles back to their owners who wipe them clean.
•	 Play continues with Phase 1 again unless there are no more 
Companies to be auctioned, in which case the game is over.
•	 The player to the left of the current Auctioneer becomes the 
next Auctioneer.
5. End of the Sale
Calculate VP in the following order:

scoring example
To make your dry erase markers and boards last as long as possible, fully erase all 
the Tiles and player aids when you are done playing and always use the eraser 
instead of your fingers so that oils from your skin don’t transfer to the marker.
Tied Auction
special rules
In case of a tie, the tied player with the least total 
spent is the winner.
tied game
Designer
Artist
Rules Editing
CG Artist
Gavin Birnbaum 
Anca Gavril 
Travis D. Hill
Filip Gavril
credits
13 + 6 + 3 + 6 + 3 + 8 = 39
(Subtotal) Add up all the Victory Points.
It helps if you mark the Tiles you collect on your 
Player Score Board during the course of play.
1 + 1 + 2 + 1 + 4 + 4 = 13 VP
Add up the Victory Point numbers 
printed on your Company Tiles.
2 + 2 + 2 = 6 VP
Score 2 points for each round where 
you bid zero at least once.
3 VP
Score 3 points for having 2 Company 
Tiles that match your country.
6 VP + 3 VP
Score 6 points for having 3 Financial 
Companies and another 3 points for 
having 2 Manufacturing Companies.
8 VP
Score 8 points for having Companies 
in 4 different Industries
39 + 6 = 45
(Grand Total) Add up the Subtotal and 
the bonus for bidding the least (if the case).
6 VP
If you bid the least, score 6 points.
In a 5-player game, players don’t get as many chances to be 
the Auctioneer and see the winning bid. So, each player may, 
once per game, request to see the winning bid of an auction. 
Then they cross off their “See the winning bid” spot.
5-Player 
one peek Rule
If there is a tie for the highest bid, all players tied 
for the highest bid rebid. Rebids follow the normal 
rules and do not have to be higher than the first 
bid. All bids are then re-evaluated. If there is a tie 3 
times in a row, the highest bid that is not tied wins.
In order for all players to get equal turns as the Auctioneer, there is no 
Auctioneer on the last turn of a 3-player game. All three players make a secret 
bid. The highest bid wins as normal. In case of a tie, no one gets the Company.
3-Player
Last Tile Rule