Have you ever heard of the city of Quedlinburg in northern Harz and its famous market, 
which is held there annually?
Every year, the day before the market, the children compete in the big race and this year you 
will be joining in!
Play with Quacks the donkey and friends, where you’re working to move the animals along 
the track by feeding them. But, this is no normal food, it doesn’t always help your four-legged 
friends move very far forward! You’ll need to find the correct combination of food to be as fast 
as possible. Sometimes a ‘dream weed’ finds its way into your bag, and your animals will take 
a little nap instead.
Collect rubies as you go, which can be used to buy more supplies! Race your way to the finish 
line to win the coveted golden cauldron.
Game material and game preparation
6 action cards (printed on both sides)
Info sheet action cards + game variations
1 game board (printed on both sides)
4 playing figurines (donkey, sheep, pig, cow)
162 food chips
18 dream weed chips
4 animal cards
26 four-leaf clovers
1 golden cauldron
40 rubies
2 dice
4 food bags

Place all of the game materials that are not being used aside or in the overturned box lid. The bottom of the box with 
the appropriately filled compartments is your reserve. You need that to play.
Before the first game, carefully remove all the cardboard pieces from the perforated sheet. Before you begin to play, set up the game as follows:
• Lay the game board in the centre.
The game board has two sides. The path is shorter on one side than on the other. To start off, 
play on the side with the shorter path. This is indicated by the red roof on the start house.
• Each player chooses a playing figure (cow, donkey, pig or sheep) and takes the corresponding animal card and the 
bag in the matching colour of the playing figure. Place the animal card in front of you and place your playing figure on 
the start house in the forest on the game board.
• When you look at the action cards, you will see that they each have a caterpillar 
side and a butterfly side. These are two different sets of cards.
To start off, play with the caterpillar set. Lay down the red, yellow, green and blue 
action cards next to the game board with the caterpillar side facing up.
Below, we will describe the beginner’s game with the first four action cards (red, yellow, green, blue) of the caterpillar 
set. When you have played the game a couple of times, you can make the game more complex and exciting by adding 
the orange and purple action cards (and the corresponding chips).
It’s even more versatile with the butterfly set for advanced players. You can find the detailed explanation for all possible 
game options on the info sheet under Info sheet action cards + game variations.
• Place the white die on the yellow action card. (You don’t need the wood-coloured die yet. It belongs to the butterfly 
set for advanced players.)
• Sort the food chips according to their respective values in the corresponding compartments in the bottom of the 
box. Which chips should be placed in which compartment is indicated on the bottom of the compartments. For the 
beginner’s version explained here, you only need the red, yellow, green, blue and white chips.
• To start the game, all players place all of the same start chips in their food bag. Look on the reverse side of your 
animal card. There you can see which chips they are. Now, shake your bag well.
	
	
Place the rubies in the appropriate compartment in the bottom of the box. You will only need the four-leaf clovers 
when you extend the basic game game variations. Place the golden cauldron on the marketplace of the game 
board as the prize for the winner. Now the race can begin!
Caterpillar set
4 dream weed chips
1 yellow ‘1’ chip
2 red ‘2’ chips
1 red ‘2’ chip
Setup for 4 players
Start chips

After that, it is the next player’s turn.
Mount the animals, ready, go!
The player who most recently saw a donkey begins the game. Then you take turns one after the other in a clockwise di-
rection. When it is your turn, you always pick one chip from your food bag without looking inside the bag. That is not 
allowed during the entire game! The chip you have picked determines what happens next:
	
Your animal is chewing on the dream weed, day-
dreaming and does not advance during this turn.
Place the dream weed chip on your animal’s next va-
cant dream bubble on your animal card.
Whenever you place a dream weed chip on the last 
dream bubble and thereby fill three dream bubbles, 
you can immediately buy new chips Buying new 
chips.
(The outlined four-leaf clover on the last dream bubble is only important if you 
are playing with the orange action card game variations).
1. 	You feed your animal and place the chip on the ani-
mal shown on your animal card. Your animal is happy 
about being fed and moves forward as many fields on 
the path as are shown by the number on the chip.
2.⦁	Then you perform the task stated on the action card. 
The colour of the chip indicates which action card you 
need to follow. You will find the explanations on the in-
dividual action cards on the info sheet under Action 
cards + game variations.
Exception: If you pick a white sugar beet 
chip later in the game, you may advance 
eight path fields.
That’s because sugar beets are your animal’s favour-
ite food. But after that, you don’t perform any task.
When you move your playing figures forward, make 
sure that occupied fields are counted and remember 
that it is also possible to have several playing figures 
standing on one field.
Example
Paula picks a red ‘2’ 
chip from her food bag 
and places it on her 
Now it is Conrad’s 
turn and he takes 
a yellow ‘1’ chip 
from his food bag 
and places it on his 
She moves her playing figure, 
the sheep, two fields forward.
This allows him to move his donkey 
one field forward.
Since she picked a red chip, she now 
also performs the red task and takes a 
ruby from the reserve.
Then he performs the 
yellow task: he throws 
the white die and gets 
the following symbol:
She places the ruby on the backpack of her 
This allows him to immediately 
take a green ‘2’ chip from the 
reserve and put it right into his 
food bag.
You pick a dream weed chip.
You pick a food chip with a number on it.
OR
Food 
chip

Buying new Chips
In the area surrounding the town of Quedlinburg, there are occasionally vendors who 
will sell you new food for the animals.
If you pick dream weed for the third time, you may immediately buy new food 
chips. You pay the new food chips with the rubies, which 
you have collected up until now on the backpack of your 
animal card. You receive rubies whenever you pick red 
chips Action cards. 
At the edge of the compartments in the bottom of the box, you 
can see how many rubies you need to pay for which chips:
For 1 ruby you receive one ‘1’ chip, for 2 rubies one ‘2’ chip, for 3 rubies one ‘4’ chip and for 5 rubies one ‘8’ chip. The ‘5’ chips are only put 
in the game if you are playing the caterpillar set extension Info sheet action cards + game variations. The rubies that you use 
to pay are then returned to the ruby reserve in the bottom of the box.
The following rules apply for buying new chips:
• 	If you buy more than one chip, the chips must have different colours.
• 	You may not save your rubies for later. If you don’t want to spend all of your rubies, you have 
	 	to return them to the ruby reserve.
• If your animal is in last place on the path, you may take one extra ruby before you buy. This also 
	 	applies if you share last place with another player.
If at some point in the game you put the third dream weed chip on your animal card and you haven’t collected any rubies yet, you 
will unfortunately not be able to buy any new chips in this round.
When you are finished buying, place all of your chips back in the bag. These are: 
⦁	 • 	all the new chips that you just bought and
⦁	 • 	all the food and dream weed chips that are lying on your animal card.
Now there are no more chips on top of your animal card. Now, shake your food bag well. The next time it is your turn, pick 
a chip from your freshly filled food bag.
Paula picks the third dream weed chip 
from her bag. She places it on the third 
dream bubble. Her sheep may not move forward. She 
can now buy new food chips.
For her 4 rubies, she buys herself 1 blue ‘4’ chip + 1 green ‘1’ chip. 
She returns all the rubies to the reserve and puts all chips (those 
bought and those on her animal card) in her bag.
Who will win the golden cauldron?
The first player to reach the marketplace in Quedlinburg is the winner and is awarded the golden cauldron. 
It is not necessary to reach the marketplace with the exact number of moves.
Example
The author and publisher extend their thanks to all test players and rule reviewers. We reserve the right to make changes.
Item no. 88409
Game author: Wolfgang Warsch
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Editor: Meike Wilken
Realisation: Jasmin Weigand
Graphic Design & 3D: designstudio1.de
Translations: Schmieder Translations
UK Importer:
Coiledspring Games
Hampton Hill, TW12 1NP
Schmidt Spiele GmbH
Lahnstraße 21, 12055 Berlin
www.schmidtspiele.de
www.schmidtspiele-shop.de