Further explanation of the ingredient books
You do not have to read through all the ingredient books. You only need to read the sets that are in the game, and only 
when new books are put onto the table.
Pumpkin:
Cost: An orange 1-chip costs 3 coins. 
Bonus: None. A 1-chip in the pot has no particular function other than filling the pot by 1 space. It is the least 
expensive chip in the game.
Crow skull:
SET 1
Cost: A Blue 1-chip costs 5 coins, a 2-chip costs 10, and a 4-chip costs 19. 
Bonus: If you draw a blue chip from your bag, put it in your pot. You can then take chips out of your bag according 
to the number shown on the chip. 
 For a 1-chip, take out 1 chip.
 For a 2-chip, take out 2 chips.
 For a 4-chip, take out 4 chips.
From the chips drawn, you may lay down 1 of them as your next chip. Put the other chips back into the bag. If you 
do not like what you see, you may put them all back into the bag. If the newly laid chip also has a bonus, it can 
also be carried out immediately.
SET 2
Cost: A Blue 1-chip costs 5 coins, a 2-chip costs 10, and a 4-chip costs 19.
Bonus: When you place a blue 1-chip in your pot, if your potion explodes with the next drawn chip then 
you receive both victory points and coins for shopping. However, you still cannot roll the Bonus Die if 
your potion explodes. If you place a blue 2-chip, the above still applies even if your potion explodes in 
the next two drawn chips. If you place a blue 4-chip, the above applies for the next 4 drawn chips. The 
actions do not add up. If a blue chip is placed after another blue chip whose bonus is not yet over, you 
get the better bonus of the blue chips, not both. If a blue 4-chip is placed after a blue 2-chip, the bonus 
only applies for the next 4 drawn chips, not 5. If a blue 2-chip is the third placed chip after a blue 
4-chip, the bonus only applies for the next 2 drawn chips.
SET 3
Cost: A Blue 1-chip costs 4 coins, a 2-chip costs 8, and a 4-chip costs 14. 
Bonus: If you place a blue chip on a ruby space, you immediately receive 1 ruby. The values of the blue 
chips are of no significance.
SET 4
Cost: A Blue 1-chip costs 5 coins, a 2-chip costs 10, and a 4-chip costs 20. 
Bonus: If you draw a blue 1-chip from your bag and have to place it on a ruby space, you immediately receive 1 
victory point. You receive 2 victory points for a 2-chip and 4 victory points for a 4-chip.
The bag-building game for quacks and charlatans 
by Wolfgang Warsch for 2–4 players ages 10 and up.
Contents
4 pots (player boards)
1 Scoring Track with Turn Indicator
4 flasks
2 yellow ingredient books
2 green ingredient books
2 red ingredient books
2 blue ingredient books
1 black ingredient book
1 orange ingredient book
2 purple ingredient books
0 / 50-seals
1 Bonus Die
3 replacement chips
1 Almanac of Ingredients
215 ingredient chips+ 3 replacement chips
20x 
12x
13x
The red encircled ingredient books 
will be used for the first game.
15x
18x
15x 
8x
4x
13x
8x
6x
20x
14x 
20 rubies
4 scoring markers
4 bags
4 rat stones
1 Flame 
(turn marker)
24 Fortune- 
Teller cards
8 droplets (4 of which are for 
the game variation)

The Story
Once every year, the city of 
Quedlinburg holds a 9-day 
bazaar within its city walls. 
The country‘s best miracle 
doctors and quack 
surgeons gather in one 
place to showcase 
their healing 
remedies. Smelly 
feet, homesickness, 
hiccups and love problems—these charlatans have a 
unique cure for whatever ails you. 
During the game, players draw from their 
ingredient bag in the hopes of creating 
the best potion. The better the potion, 
the more coins that you will have to buy 
superior ingredients. But be careful: a few 
too many of these special ingredients and 
the whole pot could explode!
So do you press your luck hoping for that 
magic elixir, or do you play it safe in 
the hopes for bigger gains and more valuable ingredients 
later? That is for you to find out…maybe the hard way. So 
stockpile your most valuable ingredients and get brewing; 
your next potion might be the best one yet!
Setup
The last person to cook something goes first. 
The start player then shuffles the Fortune 
Teller cards and puts them face down into a 
draw pile in front of them. Now put the Scoring Track in the 
middle of the table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Flame goes on the 1-space of the Turn Indicator. The 4 
seal tiles go on the 4 seal spaces with the “0” facing up. 
Lay out the orange and the black books. You will need these 
books in every game. In the black book, there is a page for 
a 2-player game, as well as one for a 3- and 4-player game. 
The number of pots depicted at the bottom indicates the 
number of players.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The other ingredient books are compiled into 4 sets, each 
one with 5 different ingredients (green, blue, red, yellow 
and purple). The sets are indicated by the same number of 
bookmarks depicted on the lower edge of the book. Be careful 
to look at both the front and back sides of the books. For the 
first game, use Set 1 (books with only 1 bookmark). Once you 
are familiar with the set, we recommend trying Set 2, then Set 
3, and finally Set 4.
Now lay out only the green, blue and red books from any one 
set. Put the yellow and purple books off to the side. They will 
come out in Turns 2 and 3 respectively. Separate the ingredient 
chips according to their colors and put them next to their 
corresponding ingredient books.
To start off, lay out only the green, blue and red books from any 
one set. Put the yellow and purple books off to the side for now.
Black book for 
2 players
Red Book Set 1
(1 bookmark)

Each player receives one pot (player board), one bag, and the 
scoring marker in the color of their choice, which they place 
on the seal tile of the same color. Each player places their pot 
in front of them with the side without the test tubes facing 
up, and places their droplet on the “0” space in the middle of 
the pot. They will also need a flask in their color, which is 
placed on the large trivet next to the pot (bottom right) with the 
full side facing up. The rat stone is placed on the small trivet 
the left of the flask. Now each player takes 4 white 1-chips, 2 
white 2-chips, 1 white 3-chip, 
1 orange 1-chip and 1 green 
1-chip, and puts them into 
their bag. A visual depiction 
of which chips initially go into 
the bag is depicted on the 
bottom left of the pots (front side of the pots only). 
How to Play
The game consists of 9 turns. The Flame piece (turn 
marker) indicates what turn it is.
Fortune Teller Cards
At the beginning of each turn, the player who has the 
Fortune Teller cards in front of them reads the first card 
aloud, then lays it face up next to the Scoring Track, 
which starts the discard pile. The action that was read 
out applies for all players. If the action states that the 
players can take a yellow or purple chip, they can only 
do so if the corresponding ingredient book is already 
uncovered (see “Turn Indicator” section pg. 7). If it is 
a purple Fortune Teller card, it is carried out directly 
before the turn starts. If it is a blue card, it applies for 
the whole turn or at the end of the turn. 
The Rats (starting on the 2nd round)
Once the Fortune Teller card has been 
read out, the rats come into play. The 
rats make your pot a little fuller before the potion is 
prepared. Everyone, except for the player in the lead, 
can throw rat-tails into their pots, which enables them to 
move their rat stones forward in their pots. To determine 
how many spaces the rat stones can move forward, each 
player counts the number of rat-tails between them and the 
leading player on the Scoring Track. Each player’s rat stone 
is then placed that number of spaces past their droplet.
 
Example: The green player is in the lead. The blue player 
is in second place. There is no rat-tail between blue and 
green. Therefore, the blue player cannot use their rat 
stone in this round. There is 1 rat-tail between green and 
yellow, so the yellow player can set their rat stone 1 space 
ahead of their droplet. There are 2 rat-tails between green 
and red. Player red, therefore, can move their rat stone 2 
spaces ahead of the droplet.
Once the rat-tails have been counted up and the rat 
stones moved accordingly, the players simultaneously 
prepare their potion.
Start set-up

Potions Phase
To prepare their potions, everyone draws chip after 
chip from their bags, placing them on the appropriate 
numbered space in their pots. There are no individual 
turns during the Potions Phase. Everyone prepares their 
potions at the same time. Even though they players are 
filling their pots at the same time, they do not have to 
draw their chips simultaneously.
 
According to its value, place the first chip you draw on 
the space directly after the droplet (or rat, if you have one 
in your pot). The chips have the values 1, 2, 3 and 4. 
 
A 1-chip goes on the 1st space after the droplet or rat, 
a 2-chip goes on the 2nd space, and so on. For each 
subsequently drawn chip, place it after the previously 
laid chip according to its value. Any empty spaces in 
between remain empty.
Example: The first chip that Lucas draws from his bag 
is an orange 1-chip, which he places on the first space 
after the droplet (space-1). Then he draws a yellow 
2-chip from his bag. He places this chip 2 spaces after 
the orange chip onto space-3. If he draws a 1-chip next, 
he would place it on space-4.
After each chip is drawn and placed, players decide 
whether they want to stop or draw another chip from 
their bag. They might want to stop in fear of having their 
pot blow up (see “Stopped by an Explosion”). If a player 
has no more chips in their bag they must stop. Players 
that have stopped lay their bags in front of them on the 
table so that it is clear who is still actively drawing chips 
from their bags. You are never allowed to look into 
your bag.
Stopped by an Explosion
If the sum of all white chips drawn exceeds the value 
of 7, you have too many cherry bombs in your potion and 
the pot explodes! A player whose pot explodes must stop 
and is not allowed to draw any more chips! However, 
the last chip drawn is still placed in the pot.
IMPORTANT! To determine if there is an explosion, 
only the values on the white chips are added up. 
The values on the other colored chips are not counted! 
The actions related to the Fortune Teller cards, as well 
as those of the chips (see below), are not affected by an 
explosion.
Example: Nina‘s white chips that are already in her 
pot have a total value of six (2 + 3 + 1 = 6). The orange 
chip is not counted. She decides to draw another chip 
from her bag. She takes out a white 2-chip (red circle). 
The total value is now 8 and her potion explodes. She 
places the white 2-chip but now must stop and is not 
allowed to draw any more chips from her bag.

Chip Actions
The chips not only fill up the pot; most of them also give 
you additional actions. Only the white and orange chips 
do not have any additional actions. Blue, red and yellow 
chips have a special action that is activated as soon the 
chips are drawn. You are also allowed to pass up on 
actions that you could otherwise carry out.
Example: Lucas draws a blue 2-chip. He places it in his 
pot and then he is allowed to draw 2 more chips from his 
bag, but can only put 1 of them in his pot. He draws a white 
3-chip and a red 1-chip. Strategically, he decides to put the 
red 1-chip in his pot and puts the white chip back into the 
bag. He also could have chosen not to place either of the 
chips.
The actions of the green, purple and black chips can 
be applied only at the end of the Potions Phase (see 
scoring). There is a detailed description of all the actions 
in The Almanac of Ingredients.
Flasks
If the last chip you drew was white, you may 
put it back in your bag by using your flask. 
 
Important: If the last chip drawn causes the pot to explode, 
the flask cannot be used!
 
To show that the flask has been used, turn it over so that 
the “empty flask” is facing up. After using the flask, you can 
still take out more chips from the bag. You can use it again 
only once the flask has been refilled (see Evaluation Phase 
F). That means the flask can be used only once per turn.
End of Phase
Once everyone has decided to stop drawing chips, or has 
been forced to stop because of an explosion (too many 
white chips), the Evaluation Phase begins.
Evaluation Phase
Each player’s respective scoring space is the space 
directly after the last chip placed in their pot. 
When determining the scoring space, it does not 
matter if the last chip drawn caused the potion to 
explode or not. 
Example: The scoring space in the above example where 
Nina’s pot exploded is space-10 (yellow circle).
The individual steps of the Evaluation Phase are in the 
middle of the scoring banner. Players whose pots have 
exploded do not take part in Evaluation Phase A.
Any player whose pot has exploded does not 
get to roll the die in Evaluation Phase A.
A
B
C
D
E
F
Value of the scoring space
You receive 1 ruby
Victory points

A) Bonus Die
First, everyone whose potion did not explode checks to 
see who has reached the highest scoring space. Some 
spaces have the same scoring value, in which case the 
furthest one from space-0 is the higher scoring space. 
This player gets to roll the Bonus Die for a bonus. If there 
is a tie, they all get to roll the die. 
Example: Mary and Lucas have both reached a 
scoring space with a value of 23 and stopped before 
their pots exploded. However, Mary’s scoring space 
(red circle) is higher than Lucas’s (yellow circle). 
Mary, therefore, gets to roll the Bonus Die.
B) Chip Actions
Beginning with the start player and then proceeding 
clockwise, each player will see if they have any black, 
green or purple chips in their pots and then carry out any 
actions or benefits of these chips. Players should check the 
ingredient book cards if they have any questions regarding 
the effects of chips. 
Example: For the 
book shown, all 
players receive 1 
ruby for each green 
chip that they have 
placed on the last 
or next to last space 
in their pots.
C) Rubies
All players whose scoring space has 
a ruby depicted on it receive 1 ruby. 
It does not matter if the player’s pot 
exploded or not.
WARNING! Players whose
pot exploded now have to
chose between either
Evaluation Phase D or E.
D) Victory Points
Beginning with the start player, everyone receives the 
victory points depicted on their respective scoring 
space. Move your scoring marker along the Scoring 
Track accordingly.
 
Example: Lucas’s (yellow) scoring 
space is space-23 with 7 victory 
points. He moves his scoring 
marker 7 spaces forward.
NOTE: If you happen to reach the last space in your pot 
(33) or move past it, place the chip on the 33 and take 
what is depicted on the spoon. You receive 15 victory 
points and can go shopping with 35 coins (see Evaluation 
Phase E). Everyone who has reached the last and highest 
possible scoring space gets to roll the Bonus Die. If your 
pot has blown up, you do not roll the die.
E) Buy Chips
In this phase, beginning with the start player, everyone 
takes turns buying chips. You may buy 1 or 2 chips. If 
buying 2 chips, they cannot be the same color. 
 
The number of the scoring space is the number of 
coins the player gets that round for buying additional 
ingredients. The cost of the chips is listed in the 
ingredient books. The number to the far left is the 
cost for a 1-chip, the number in the middle is for a 
2-chip and the number to the far right is for a 4-chip. 
The player
receives 1
victory point.
The player can
move his droplet 1
space forward.
(if a chip occupies the space, move it aside)
The player
receives 2
victory points.
The player receives l orange 
chip in his bag. 
The Player
receives
1 ruby.
Mary
Lucas

If there is only 1 number shown, 
that means there are only 
1-chips for this ingredient. 
 
Higher-valued chips have the 
advantage of letting you move 
forward more spaces in your pot. 
But they also play a role with 
the green and blue books, the action of which depends 
on the value of the chip. Any left-over coins that have 
not been used are lost. The number of chips is limited. 
Once an ingredient has no more chips, you may not buy 
that ingredient. 
 
Once everyone has finished shopping, each player puts 
the purchased chips into their bags along with all the 
other drawn chips. 
 
 
Example: Nina’s pot (red) exploded after drawing 
the white 3-chip. Her scoring space is the 19. Lucas 
(yellow) stopped in time. His scoring space is the 
15. As a result, Lucas gets to roll the Bonus Die. He 
receives a ruby, 3 victory points, and can go shopping 
with 15 coins. Nina, on the other hand, has to decide 
if she prefers the 5 victory points or 19 coins. Nina 
decides to take the coins. She buys a green 2-chip for 
8 coins and a blue 2-chip for 10 coins. Lucas decides 
on a green 4-chip. Both players lose their 1 unspent 
coin. 
F) End of Turn
At the end of the turn, players can carry out the following 
actions (more than once) by spending rubies:
 Move their droplet forward
To fill their pot faster, players can 
trade in 2 rubies and move their 
droplet 1 space forward. This will 
give them the advantage in the 
following rounds of being able to 
place the first chip they draw out of 
the bag onto a higher space.
 Fill up the flask
Players can fill up their flasks at the 
cost of 2 rubies. Turn over the flask 
so that it once again shows the side 
with a full flask. The flask can then 
be used in the next turn.
Each player then takes his rat stone out of the pot and 
puts it back on the small trivet. Pass the pile of Fortune 
Teller cards to the next player in a clockwise direction. 
That player is now the start player for the next turn. 
Move the Flame ahead to the next space on the Turn 
Indicator and start the next turn.
Turn Indicator
The Turn Indicator shows what turn it is and whether or 
not an action must be carried out to start the turn. On 
turn 9 it shows the additional actions that can be taken at 
the end of the turn.
Before beginning turn 2, lay out the 
yellow ingredient book. Before turn 3, lay 
out the purple ingredient book. Once an 
ingredient book is put out, players may 
then buy those colored chips during the 
buy chips phase (Evaluation Phase E).
Before beginning turn 6, each player 
has to put 1 more white 1-chip into 
their bag.
Lucas
Nina

During the Potion Phase of the last turn, 
the start player gives the command “Stir!”, 
and everyone reaches into their bags and 
simultaneously takes out a chip. If a player 
wishes to stop putting ingredients into their 
pot, they pull their hand out of their bag with no chip. 
This simultaneous action continues for all active players 
until everyone has either stopped pulling out chips or 
their pots have blown up. 
Players can also decide at any time to draw 
simultaneously in turns 1 through 8. This prevents 
anyone from gaining an advantage by seeing what others 
have done before they decide whether they want to pull a 
chip out of their bag.
At the end of the last turn, you can decide to 
buy a victory point with either 5 coins or 2 
rubies. You can repeat this as often as you like.
 
	
End of Game
The player whose scoring marker is the furthest 
down the Scoring Track wins. If more than one 
player shares first place, the one who was able to 
fill up their pot the most in the last turn wins. If it 
is still a tie, they can all claim to be 
the biggest quack of Quedlinburg. 
Game Variation
The game is quite variable. You can mix things up and 
make each game a little different than the last. From game 
to game, choose a different set of ingredient books. The 
ingredients of each set have been selected so that they 
blend well with one another. But more experienced players 
can also put together their own sets.
After playing the game a few times, you can also play 
the game using the back side of the pots (the side with 
the test tubes). When using the test-tube side, also 
place a droplet on the far left test tube. Throughout the 
course of the game, whenever you’re able to move your 
droplet forward (through a Fortune Teller card, chip 
action or paying 2 rubies), you can decide which of your 
2 droplets you want to move forward - the droplet in 
your pot or the one on your test tubes. If you decide to 
move the test tube droplet, move it 1 glass to the right. 
You then immediately receive the bonus shown there: 
	
	
	
The player receives 1 ruby
	
The player receives 1,2,3 or 4 victory 
points according to the number shown.
	
The player receives the chips shown, which 
they immediately put into their bag.
Even though it is not indicated on the back side of the pot, the 
rules for blowing up your pot still apply. 	
 	
 
The publisher and author 
thank all test players and 
rules editors.
Schmidt Spiele GmbH
Lahnstraße 21
12055 Berlin
www.schmidtspiele.de
www.schmidtspiele-shop.de