YOU are a mighty Quarrior—a magical warrior with knowledge of the mysterious powers of Quiddity and the art of capturing 
Quarry. Your Quarry (also known as “dice”) are powerful Creatures and magical Spells that you can use in your quest to amass 
the most Glory!
But your rivals plot against you! They will send their own Creatures and Spells to destroy your Quarry before you can deliver 
them to the Empress Quiana and claim your reward! Summon your Creatures and protect them from your foes and you will 
earn Glory for yourself. The first player to earn enough Glory will be hailed as the Champion of the Empress!
Quarrior?!?!? What the quack is a Quarrior? Well… “Quarry” has two meanings (something you capture, and something you mine: 
like pulling dice from a bag hint, hint). Combine that with “Warrior” and BAM! Quarrior. Marketing magic!
Find the 3 Basic Resource Cards (Assistant, Basic Quiddity, and Portal) and place them face up in the middle of the table. 
This creates an area we call the “Wilds.” Put 2 Assistant Dice on the Assistant Card and 5 Portal Dice on the Portal Card.
 SETUP
UP
130 Quarry Dice
53 Power Cards
Greetings Quarriors! I am Quirktarious Qwellingston, but you can just call me Quirk! If there’s something 
you need to know about Quarriors, the Quarry, or any other number of Q words, I’m your Creature! I have used 
my vast knowledge and overall brainy-brain to create this rulebook to help guide you! Unlike past Quarriors 
rulebooks, this rulebook combines the Quarriors Base Game and all expansions including Rise of the Demons, 
Quarmageddon, Quest of the Qladiator, Quartifacts, and even Light vs. Dark! The first section of this rulebook 
explains the core rules of Quarriors that apply to the vast majority of games you’ll play. Following that, each 
expansion section is dedicated solely to the rules present in that expansion (we’ve gone ahead and removed the 
pesky redundant information for you!). At the end, we close with the rules for Light vs. Dark which, as you may 
or may not know, was a standalone Quarriors game that introduced a new and exciting way to play Quarriors! We 
recommend that you start off by just playing with the core rules in the first section and gradually playing around 
and combining expansions thereafter! Once you’ve mastered Quarriors you can play with all the expansions together 
and even delve into some of the expert level variants throughout this rulebook!
d
er

Divide the rest of the cards into two stacks: Creature Cards and Spell Cards. 
The next few paragraphs can be summarized as: “Shuffle creatures and spells separately and Flip over 7 creatures and 3 spells 
so that no two pictures are the same. Arrange them nicely with the dice that match the bottom of the cards.”
Shuffle the Creature Cards. Turn over the first card and place it face up in the Wilds next to the Basic Resource Cards. 
Continue to turn over cards, one at a time. Each card has a “class” (such as “Scavenging Goblin”) and a “type” (such as 
“Strong”). For each card, see if it matches the same class as any of the cards already in the Wilds. If it does not, then add that 
card to the Wilds. If it does match, put it the card back in the box and turn over the next card.
Example: If the first card turned over was the Scavenging Goblin, and a Mighty Scavenging Goblin card is turned over later, put the Mighty Scavenging Goblin 
card back in the box, since they are the same class.
Keep turning over cards until there are 7 different classes of Creature Cards in the Wilds. Then, shuffle the Spell Cards and 
repeat the process until there are 3 different classes of Spell Cards in the Wilds. You may find it helpful to arrange the 2 groups 
(spells and creatures) in ascending order of cost (i.e., if you have spells that cost 3, 4, and 2, place the 2 spell on the left, the 3 
in the middle, and the 4 on the right). This helps when deciding which die to capture.
Find the 5 Quarry dice that match the color of each Creature Card and Spell Card in the Wilds. Place those dice on the 
matching card. Any leftover cards and dice can be returned to the box: they won’t be used in this game.
Okay you should start reading again:
Finally, each player chooses a bag and Glory marker. Place your Glory marker next to the Glory Track. Give each player 8 
Basic Quiddity Dice and 4 Assistant Dice. Put all 12 of your dice in your bag and mix them up. Any leftover Basic Quiddity and 
Assistant Dice are returned to the box. Choose which player will begin the first turn. Your quest is ready to begin!
QUARRY DICE
The dice have a variety of symbols on the different faces. When you roll a die, the symbols on the top of the die tell you what 
you can use or “spend” that die to do:
 Quiddity: When you roll this symbol, you can spend this die to gain the amount of Quiddity shown. Often there will only 
be 1 Quiddity, but sometimes you will get 2 or more from a single die!
 Draw and Roll: When you roll this symbol, you may spend this die to draw the number of dice shown from your bag and 
roll them. These dice are then added to your Active Pool. This is always an Immediate Effect.
 Re-roll: When you roll this symbol, you may re-roll this die. This is always an Immediate Effect. You may re-roll the 
same die every time this symbol is rolled, even during the same turn.
 Creature Icon or Spell Icon: Creature Dice and Spell Dice show a unique symbol on one or more faces, called the 
Icon. The Icon is different on each type of die! When you roll the Icon, you may move that die to your Ready Area, 
converting it into a Creature or Spell (see “Ready Spells and Summon Creatures”).
Around the Icon on the Creature Dice are numbers that tell you the Creature’s level, its attack (the 
amount of damage it adds to your attack total), and its defense (the amount of damage it can take 
before being destroyed).
 Burst: Some dice have special effects that only occur when certain faces are rolled. These 
special faces show one or more Burst symbols. The Power Card lists the effects that occur 
when the matching number of Burst symbols is rolled. Any effect created by a Burst is in 
addition to the normal effects of the die roll.
Example: One face of the Questing Wizard die shows a single Burst. If you roll this face, you may draw another die from your bag and roll it, and you may 
re-roll the Questing Wizard die too. A different face shows two Bursts. If you roll that face and summon the Questing Wizard, he will have +1 defense and award 
+1 Glory if he scores.
Some dice show two symbols on the same face, separated by a line. If you get this result when you roll the die, you must 
choose one of the two options shown. If the die shows two symbols without a line, then you can use both abilities.
Example: This Quake Dragon die shows two 
symbols on this face with a line. If you get this 
result, you must either choose to spend this die 
for 3 Quiddity, or you can spend it to re-roll 
this die.
This Victory Spell die shows the re-roll and draw 
symbols without a line, so you can spend this die to 
both draw (and roll) one die and re-roll the Victory 
Spell die.

DICE LOCATIONS
This section can be summarized as: “You have the area you buy from, your bag, the area you roll lots of dice, the area you place 
spells and creatures, the area you put dice you’ve used this turn, and the area you put dice at the end of your turn.” 
The Wilds: Any dice in the middle 
of the table are said to be “in the 
Wilds.” No one controls any of these 
dice, and you cannot use them until 
you capture them.
We call all of the dice you 
currently control your “collection.” 
Only you can use the dice in your 
collection (and you can’t use dice in 
the other players’ collections!). Each 
of the dice in your collection will 
normally be in one of five places:
Your Bag: Dice that are not 
currently “in play” are kept in your 
bag. These dice can’t be used for 
any purpose, and they cannot be 
the target of any Creature ability or 
Spell effect. Each turn you will draw 
dice out of your bag to bring them 
into play, adding them to your Active 
Pool.
Your Active Pool: These are the dice you will roll during your turn. You can use these dice to ready Spells, summon 
Creatures, gain Quiddity, or create Immediate Effects. Any effect or ability that allows you to re-roll dice can only be used to re-
roll dice in your Active Pool (unless that ability or effect says otherwise, of course!).
Note: Unless an effect or ability says otherwise, any time you roll dice for any reason, they are always added to your Active Pool.
Your Ready Area: This is where you put readied Spells and Creatures that you have summoned. You can use these dice to 
attack your opponents or cast spells. Creatures in your Ready Area can earn Glory if they survive until your next turn. 
Your Spent Pile: Any time you “spend” dice during your turn, they go to your Spent Pile—where they will languish until the 
end of your turn. Dice in your Spent Pile cannot be drawn or rolled unless an effect or ability specifically allows it.
Your Used Pile: At the end of your turn, all of the dice in your Spent Pile, along with any unused dice from your Active Pool, 
go to your Used Pile. Also, any dice in your Ready Area that score or are “destroyed” go here, as do any new Quarry dice you 
capture from the Wilds. If you need to draw dice and your bag is empty, put all the dice in your Used Pile into your bag, mix 
them, and draw the dice you need.
Note: Dice in your Spent Pile and Used Piles are still “in play,” so they can be targeted by abilities and effects, but you cannot spend them for any purpose.
SPENDING DICE
Most of the time, if you want to get the benefit of a die (such as gaining Quiddity or casting a spell), you must “spend” that die. 
When you spend dice, they are immediately moved to your Spent Pile. You can only spend dice that are in your Active Pool or 
Ready Area.
POWER CARDS
Power Cards are always placed in the Wilds. They provide a place to store the Quarry dice that can be captured during the 
game. Each Power Card also shows three important pieces of information:
• Quiddity Cost — In the top left corner: You must spend this amount of Quiddity to capture one matching Quarry die from this 
Power Card.
• Glory Award — In the top right corner: You receive this amount of Glory if you summon a matching Creature and protect it 
until the beginning of your next turn.
• Dice Faces! — No seriously — the bottom of each card shows every face of the matching die. This can be useful to see what 
that die can do.
• Abilities and Effects — When you roll a Creature Icon or Spell Icon, you may use the abilities or effects listed on the Power 
Card. To use a Creature ability, you must roll the matching Creature Icon and summon it to your Ready Area.To use a Spell 
effect, you must roll the Spell Icon and ready the die. 
Note: There are three playmats scattered throughout this rulebook on pages 10, 15, and 30 to help new and 
veteran players alike. You can also copy them so all players can reference the different dice locations!

Some abilities and effects are listed next to one or more Burst symbols. You can only use these if the matching Bursts are on 
the top face of the die. If the result of rolling the die does not show a Burst, you cannot use that ability.
QUIDDITY
Did you know Quiddity is a real word meaning “the essence of the thing”? (Get it: dice buying dice?) Who said games can’t be 
educational? If you think it’s “silly,” know that you are besmirching the English language… and, and… history! Fine. Fine, just say 
mana, or “resource”. We understand. Okay, we don’t… our feelings are actually a little hurt—no, no, it’s fine.
Quiddity (Quid for short) is the source of all magic in Quarriors. You gain Quiddity by spending dice with the Quiddity symbol 
during your turn. You can also gain Quiddity from some spell effects or Creature abilities.
Most dice with the Quiddity symbol give you 1 Quiddity when you spend them. But some dice 
provide 2 or more. The number inside the Quiddity symbol is the amount of Quiddity that die provides 
when you spend it.
Quiddity is used to summon Creatures from your Active Pool to your Ready Area. You also use 
Quiddity to capture new Quarry dice from the Wilds. You cannot save Quiddity from turn to turn. Any 
Quiddity that you do not spend is lost at the end of your turn!
THE PLAY OF THE GAME
Quarriors is played in turns, starting with the first player and continuing clockwise around the table. Keep taking turns until one 
player earns enough Glory to win the game, or until there are 4 empty Creature Cards in the Wilds (see “Winning the Game” on 
page 7).
This is pretty important: Your turn is divided into 5 phases, which you must complete in this order:
1. Score Creatures
2. Draw, Roll, and Ready Dice
3. Attack Your Rivals
5. Move Dice to Your Used Pile
Phase 4 is optional. You may skip this phase if you don’t want to take that action. The other phases are required: you cannot 
skip them even if you want to! 
So to review: Score your creatures. Roll dice, ready dice, roll some more dice, ready dice etc. Attack! Buy a die. Move dice from 
this turn to your Used Pile.
ON YOUR TURN
Phase 1: Score Creatures
If you have any Creatures in your Ready Area, you must score them now. 
We understand that this doesn’t make a lot of sense right now, but once you learn the other steps you’ll think this is brilliant! 
So try reading the other phases first and come back to this.
Important: You are not allowed to attach spells in this phase. 
Yes, this is for the cheaty pants out there that were trying to sneak in an attach spell right before scoring. 
Nice try. We’ve got our eye on you, Mr. Shenanigans!
Example: The Power Card to the left shows the stats and abilities for the Scavenging Goblin.
You must spend 2 Quiddity to capture 1 Scavenging Goblin die from the Wilds. If you summon the 
goblin and keep it alive, you will earn 2 Glory.
The possible results you will get when you roll the Scavenging Goblin die are listed on the bottom of 
the card. The 3 possibilities are:
The first two faces of the die give you 1 Quiddity.
The second two faces of the die allow you to summon a Scavenging Goblin, but since there is no Burst 
symbol you cannot use its special ability.
The last two faces of the die allow you to summon the Scavenging Goblin. Since it also shows the 
Burst symbol, you can use the special ability on the Power Card, which gives you 1 additional Quiddity to 
spend this turn when it is summoned.

Find the matching Power Card for each Creature in your Ready Area. The number in the top right corner of the Power Card 
tells you how much Glory you earn for that Creature. Move your marker forward on the Glory Track that many spaces. If you 
now have enough Glory to win the game, the game immediately ends and you win!
Next, you must move all Creature Dice (and Spells attached to them) from your Ready Area to your Used Pile.
Culling Dice
After scoring, you may choose to “cull” your collection. Each Creature that scores allows you to cull any one die from your 
Used Pile (including the Creature that just scored or any spells attached to it). When you cull a die, return it to the matching 
Power Card in the Wilds. That die is again available for any player to capture. You may only cull dice in your Used Pile. Culling 
dice allows you to modify your collection by removing dice you don’t want any more.
Example: Quinn starts his turn with one Creature in his Ready Area: a Strong Witching Hag. He scores 3 Glory for the Creature and moves it to his Used Pile. 
The Strong Witching Hag has an ability that allows Quinn to move a different Creature Die from his Used Pile to his Active Pool when the Strong Witching Hag 
scores. He chooses to move his Scavenging Goblin to his Active Pool (he will roll that die with the others in Phase 2). Then he decides to cull the Assistant Die 
from his Used Pile, returning it to the Wilds.
Phase 2: Draw, Roll, and Ready Dice
Shake your bag to mix the dice inside. Then (without looking!) draw out 6 dice and add them to your Active Pool. Now roll all of 
the dice in your Active Pool.
If there are less than 6 dice left in your bag, draw all of the dice that are there and add them to your Active Pool. Then take 
all of the dice in your Used Pile and return them to your bag, mix them, and continue drawing until you have drawn a total of 6 
dice or until you have no dice left to draw.
Example: Quinn draws 6 dice out of his bag and adds them to the Scavenging Goblin die already in his Active Pool. He then rolls all 7 dice.
Immediate Effects
Some dice, such as Portals, have an 
“Immediate Effect” when you roll them. (as 
noted by “Immediate” on their Power Card). 
These effects might allow you to draw and 
roll more dice, or re-roll dice, or some other 
benefit. Usually, you must spend the dice to get 
the effect. Immediate Effects are optional. You 
choose which Immediate Effects to use and 
which to ignore. You can use Immediate Effects 
in any order you choose, but they can only be 
used immediately after rolling your dice. Dice 
with Immediate Effects showing are never 
placed in your Ready Area.
Example: Quinn has rolled two dice with Immediate Effects, a Portal and an Assistant: His Portal Die shows a 
“Draw” symbol for 2 dice, so he spends the Portal Die (adding it to his Spent Pile) to draw 2 more dice from his bag, 
rolls them both, and adds them to his Active Pool.
Quinn’s Assistant Die allows him to re-roll the Assistant Die and any one other die. He picks up the Assistant Die 
and one of his Quiddity Dice and re-rolls them, returning both to his Active Pool. Note that if he rolled the re-roll 
effect on his Assistant Die again, he could use it a second time.
Remember: A player can choose the order which they resolve any Immediate Effects they rolled. If he wanted, Quinn could have 
used the Assistant effect before the Portal effect. The Immediate Effects do not occur simultaneously!
g g

Ready Spells and Summon Creatures
Once you are finished resolving your Immediate Effects, take 
a moment to look at the dice still in your Active Pool. You may 
move any Spell Dice showing the Spell Icon to your Ready 
Area. These dice become “Spells” that you can later cast (see 
“Spells” on page 8). You do not have to spend any Quiddity to 
ready your Spells.
Creature Dice that show a Creature Icon can be 
“summoned.” You must spend Quiddity equal to the Creature’s 
level (in the upper left corner of the die face) to summon it. 
Spend dice from your Active Pool to get the Quiddity you 
need. After spending the required Quiddity, move the die to 
your Ready Area. It is now a ferocious warrior, ready to attack 
your foes and earn Glory!
You can summon all the Creatures you want to summon 
during your turn, as long as you can pay the Quiddity costs. 
You can even summon some Creatures, resolve any special 
abilities, then summon some more.
Example: Looking at his dice, Quinn sees that he has one Spell: a Death Cantrip. He moves the die to his Ready Area so it is available to cast later. Quinn also 
has two Creature Icons on his dice: the Scavenging Goblin and the Ghostly Spirit. The Scavenging Goblin is level 1, so he can summon it by spending 1 Quiddity. 
The Ghostly Spirit is level 1, so he’ll need 1 Quiddity for that one. Even though Quinn has plenty of Quiddity available on his Active Pool dice, he wants to 
capture an expensive Quarry die later. So he only spends 1 Quiddity to summon the Scavenging Goblin.
Quinn notices that the Scavenging Goblin die shows the Burst symbol: that means that he can use the special ability listed on the Scavenging Goblin card. This 
ability grants Quinn 1 Quiddity when the Scavenging Goblin is summoned. He points this out to the other players. He plans to use that Quiddity later in his turn.
Note: Some Creatures have abilities that can be used at the moment you summon them. These abilities have to be used right away: you cannot wait to use 
these abilities later. If you summon multiple Creatures together, you can resolve their abilities in any order you choose. If one of these abilities allows you to 
draw and roll more dice, you may use any Immediate Effects, ready Spells, and summon Creatures as normal.
Phase 3: Attack Your Rivals
Now is the time to send your Creatures to attack your foes! All of the Creatures in your Ready Area must attack all of your 
opponents. To resolve your attack, follow the steps below 
(which can be summarized as: “Count up your attack, declare it, each defender decides what to do with it”)
1. Count Damage: Add the attack values of all your Creatures together (including any Spells you are using). This is your 
“attack total.” If you want to cast spells or use Creature abilities to increase your Creature’s attack value for this turn, you may 
use them now.
2. Attack: Each of your opponents who have at least one Creature in their Ready Area must defend against your attack total 
(each opponent receives the same attack total). All of your opponents defend simultaneously and individually. Each opponent 
follows these steps to resolve your attack.
2a. Apply Protection: The defending player may use abilities or effects that reduce your Creatures’ attack (such as casting a 
spell that lowers your Creature’s attack or a Creature ability like the Mighty Witching Hag’s) or increase the defense values of 
their Creatures. Unless the ability or effect says otherwise, they only reduce your attack values and attack total for that player 
and have no effect on your attacks against your other opponents.
Note: Spells that would destroy an attacking Creature before defending Creatures have been chosen remove the attacking Creature for all defending players 
(and reduce the attack total against all of them).
2b. Choose Defender: The defending player must now choose one of their Creatures to defend. 
2c. Defender Takes Damage: The defending Creature takes damage from the attack. If your attack total is less than the 
Creature’s defense value, the defender is not affected, and that player is done defending against your attack. If your attack 
total is equal to or higher than the Creature’s defense value, your opponent’s Creature is destroyed! They must move it to their 
Used Pile, and they subtract the Creature’s defense from your attack total.
Note: Abilities on defending Creatures that would destroy attacking creatures after defending Creatures have been chosen (such as the burst ability of the 
Strong Gnome Barbarian) do not reduce the attack total (for that defending player or any other player defending the attack).
2d. Next Defender: If your attack total is still higher than zero, that opponent must choose another Creature to defend, if they 
have any. If your opponent has run out of Creatures to defend with, they are done defending against your attack (even if their 
Creatures did not absorb the entire attack total). Any leftover attack value is lost.
Repeat steps 2b, 2c, and 2d as needed until all players have either defended against your entire attack total, or run out of 
Creatures to defend with.
C

Important: When you defend against an attack, you must choose your defending Creatures one at a time. 
You cannot choose to divide the attack total between your Creatures to keep them from being destroyed!
Note: Some Creatures have abilities that can be used when it is destroyed, or when an opponent’s Creature is destroyed. Remember to resolve these abilities 
when their conditions are met. Each Creature in your Ready Area can only be damaged once per attack: If an effect or ability prevents a Creature’s destruction 
or returns a destroyed Creature to your Ready Area (such as a Life Charm), you may not assign any more damage to that Creature this turn. Any leftover 
damage (after all defending Creatures have been damaged once) is lost.
In rare cases, the order in which Creatures attack multiple players matters. In these situations, the players resolve the 
destruction of their Creatures in turn, clockwise around the table, starting with the player to the left of the attacker.
Example: Monique is ready to attack her rivals. She has two 
Creatures in her Ready Area: a Strong Deathdealer and a Warrior 
of the Quay. She also has a Death Charm in her Ready Area. 
Before starting her attack, Monique decides to attach the Death 
Charm to her Strong Deathdealer.
Step 1: Count Damage: Thanks to the Death Charm, the 
Strong Deathdealer has an attack of 6. She adds that to the 
Warrior of the Quay’s attack of 2 for an attack total of 8.
Step 2: Defend: Quinn must defend against Monique’s attack. 
He has three Creatures: a Scavenging Goblin, a Strong Ghostly 
Spirit, and a Devotee of the Holy Query. 
Quinn decides to defend with the Strong Ghostly Spirit first. It 
only has a defense of 3, so it is destroyed. But, it has a special 
ability: instead of going to the Used Pile, the Strong Ghostly Spirit 
die goes to Quinn’s Active Pool. He will get to roll it again on his 
next turn (in addition to the six he would draw for the turn!).
Monique still has an attack total of 5, so Quinn must choose 
another defender. He selects the Devotee of the Holy Query, who 
has a defense of 4. 
Like the Strong Ghostly Spirit, the Devotee of the Holy Query is destroyed (it goes to Quinn’s Used Pile). But now the attack total is reduced to 1. That’s not 
enough to kill the Scavenging Goblin, so Quinn keeps it in his Ready Area.
While Quinn is defending, Clark and Michael must each also defend against the full attack total of 8.
Phase 4: Capture One Quarry Die From the Wilds
After your attack phase is complete, you may spend any Quiddity you have left to capture one Quarry die from the Wilds. 
You are never required to capture dice. The cost (in Quiddity) of each die is shown in the upper left corner of the matching 
Power Card. Spend dice from your Active Pool to pay the required cost. In addition, you may have gained Quiddity from your 
Immediate Effects, Creatures, or Spells. You may also spend this Quiddity now. All Quarry dice you capture are added to your 
Used Pile. If there are 4 (or more) empty Creature Power Cards in the Wilds after you capture a Quarry die, the game ends 
(see “Winning the Game” below)!
Note: Some Creature abilities or Spell effects allow you to capture more than one die on your turn.
Example: Quinn has a lot of unspent Quiddity. Counting the bonus he received from the Scavenging Goblin’s ability and the Quiddity symbols on all of the dice 
left in his Active Pool, he has a total of 7 Quiddity! That’s enough to capture a Heavenly Seraph from the Wilds. Since Quinn can only capture one die each turn, 
if he had any Quiddity left over it would be lost.
Phase 5: Move Dice to Your Used Pile
It can be very useful to keep spells around for future turns, so choose carefully.
After you move the dice to your Used Pile, your turn is over. The player to your left can now begin their turn!
 WINNING THE GAME
The goal of the game is to earn Glory. The primary way to gain Glory is by summoning and 
protecting your Creatures until the scoring phase of your next turn. All Glory you gain is 
recorded on the Glory Track.
There are two ways that the game can end:
1. If any player earns enough Glory to reach the goal shown on the chart to the right, the 
game immediately ends and that player wins!
Glory Goals
# of Players
Required Glory

2. If there are four or more empty Creature Power Cards (cards with no Quarry dice on them) after a player captures a 
Quarry die the game immediately ends. Only Power Cards that match the Creature Dice are counted: empty Spell Power Cards 
or Basic Resource Cards are not counted to determine if the game ends.
If the game ends because of empty Power Cards, the player with the highest Glory wins the game! If there is a tie, the tied 
player with the most dice in their Ready Area wins. If they are still tied, they share the victory!
CREATURES
A “Creature” is a die showing the Creature Icon that has been summoned into a player’s Ready Area. Dice in your Active Pool 
or any other location are not Creatures, regardless of the symbol showing on the die. 
Note: An Assistant can be a Creature.
When you roll a Creature Icon on a die, you may summon that Creature to your Ready Area by paying Quiddity equal to the 
Creature’s Level (in the upper left corner of the die). Once you move the die to your Ready Area it becomes a Creature and you 
can use the abilities shown on the die and the matching Power Card.
Most Creatures have a special ability. Some abilities are always in effect while the Creature is in play. Other abilities are only 
available if you roll a face that has Burst symbols. Burst abilities will be listed next to the matching Burst symbols on the Power 
Card.
Note: Some dice have two different burst abilities. One can be used if you roll a single Burst 
symbol. The other is only available if you roll the double Burst.
Example: The Strong Defender of the Pale has two burst abilities that he might be able to use:
If the single Burst symbol is rolled, the Strong Defender of the Pale allows you to draw 1 die 
from your bag and add it to your Active Pool when the Defender scores. If you rolled the double 
Burst symbol, you get to draw 2 dice when he scores instead!
Some abilities can only be used under special circumstances. You can only 
use the ability if those conditions are met.
Example: The Strong Ghostly Spirit has the ability to go to your Active Pool when it is 
destroyed. You can only use this ability at the moment this Creature is destroyed.
Occasionally, a die will have a Burst symbol but there will be no special ability listed on the 
Power Card. If you roll one of these Burst symbols, you should yell “Quarriors!” in your most 
dramatic voice, but other than that there is no additional effect.
If your Creature survives until the first phase of your next turn, you earn Glory, as shown on 
the matching Power Card. If the Creature scores Glory or if it is destroyed, move the die to your 
Used Pile.
 SPELLS
A “Spell” is a die showing the Spell Icon in a player’s Ready Area. You usually have to spend the die in order to cast the spell 
(the exception being “Attach” Spells: see description on following page). 
Most spells can only be cast during your turn in any Phase except Phase 1. You can even spend Spells from your Ready 
Area when your Creatures attack. However, “Reaction” Spells can be cast during opposing players’ turns (see description on 
following page). Spells with the “Immediate” effect are resolved immediately after being readied. Immediate Effect spells cannot 
be saved for later turns.
Remember Mr. Shenanigans: A spell may not be attached during the “Score Creatures” phase of a player’s turn.
Example: Quinn rolls his Shaping Charm die and gets the Spell Icon, so he moves it to his 
Ready Area. Unfortunately, he has no Creatures in his Ready Area to take advantage of the 
spell, so he leaves the Shaping Charm in his Ready Area. On a future turn, he can cast the 
Shaping Charm (spending the die and moving it to his Spent Pile) to gain the benefits of the 
Spell.
Some Spell Dice faces show a Burst symbol in addition to the Spell 
Icon. Usually, these Spells have a different effect depending on which face 
is rolled. The effect you can use will be listed on the matching Power Card 
next to the Burst symbol you rolled on the die.
Example: This Death Charm (shown to the right) can be used to give one of your Creatures 
+3 attack and +3 defense if the single Burst is rolled. But if you rolled the double Burst, it 
would instead give +5 attack and defense!
When you cast a spell, you always choose the target of the spell. Spells can target your dice or dice in your opponents’ 
collections.
co

Attachment Spells
Spells with the word “Attach” in the spell effect are not immediately moved to your Spent Pile when you cast them. Instead, 
you must “attach” the Spell Die to a Creature in a Ready Area. Simply place the Spell Die next to the target Creature. That die 
is now attached to that Creature. If that Creature is destroyed or leaves play for any reason (such as scoring Glory), your spell 
always goes to your Used Pile. A Creature may have multiple spells attached at the same time.
Reaction Spells
Normally, you can only cast spells from your Ready Area on your own turn. 
But a small number of spells can be cast during your opponents’ turns. These 
dice have the word “Reaction” in the Spell effect. You may cast a reaction 
spell at any time during your opponent’s turn, but you may not cast these 
spells when it is your turn.
Hint: Often, Reaction Spells are most useful if you cast them when 
another player’s Creatures attack you.
 AVOIDING DESTRUCTION
Some spells and Creature abilities allow a destroyed Creature to “return” to your Ready Area. Unless the effect or ability says 
otherwise, the Creature always returns to your Ready Area with the same face up as when it was destroyed. Do not rotate the 
die to show a different face.
If an ability or effect occurs when a Creature is destroyed, it still takes place, even if the Creature is saved from destruction.
Example: Quinn’s beloved Scavenging Goblin has just been destroyed by a mean old Strong Deathdealer. Fortunately, Quinn has a Shaping Cantrip in his 
Ready Area, which he casts to save his goblin at the last moment! Though he would like to change the goblin to a face with the Burst, he cannot rotate the die, 
and must return the goblin to his Ready Area with the same (Burstless) face showing. Even though the goblin was saved, the Strong Deathdealer can still use his 
ability, immediately scoring Glory for his player.
 OPTIONAL RULES FOR TRULY EPIC QUARRIORS
After you’ve been quarrying around the Wilds for a while, you might be ready for an extra challenge. Good thing we have you 
covered! These new rules are designed for experienced players who want to spice up their game with some extra strategy:
Advanced Capture Rule
During Phase 4 of your turn, you may capture up to two dice (instead of only one).
Why isn’t this the default rule? Because it takes people longer to decide… so, if you play with THOSE type of people (you know 
who we’re talking about) stick with the basic rule. Think about it: instead of around 10 possible purchases, you have dozens. 
DOZENS!
The Totally Expert Rule of Culling
When should you consider yourself an Expert? If you’re playing games in around 20 minutes or so, this variant is meant for 
you! It changes the rules for culling to make things extra challenging and force you to make really hard decisions:
When you score a die, you can only cull the die that scored and you can only score the glory for that die if you cull it. I.e, if 
you score with a Quake Dragon Die, THAT dragon is the only die you may cull and you only score the glory if you cull it! Huh. 
That doesn’t seem that difficult? It’s not. But it does tend to slow the game down a bit, and it really does add a lot of strategy.
You can play with both the Advanced and Expert rules together if you want.
Truly awesome Quarriors observe these simple guidelines at all times:
 DICE ETIQUETTE
 Keep Your Dice In Their Place: Make sure that it is clear which dice are in your Active Pool, Ready Area, Spent Pile, and 
Used Pile. Keep these areas separate on the table in front of you.
 No U-Turns: Don’t try to change the face up side of any dice—yours or your opponents. If you do, carefully return the dice to 
show the proper face.
Hands Off My Dice!: You can only use the dice in your own collection. You cannot use, roll, or spend other players’ dice.
 No Peeking: While you can look inside your bag to count how many dice you have left, you MUST ensure that the dice are 
completely randomized before you draw any dice from your bag. 
 That’s Too Much: If you ever pull too many dice out of your Bag, return all the dice you drew to the Bag, shake it, and draw 
again until you have the correct amount.
On the Table Please: If any dice fall off the table when you are rolling them, pick them up and roll them again, on the table.

Looks Cocked to Me: If you roll a die and it lands on top of something so that it is crooked (or “cocked”), roll the die again.
 Roll Over: When you roll a die, it must roll at least once all the way around. You are not allowed to drop dice off 
the edge of your hand so that it only rolls one or two sides. 
RULES SUMMARY
1. Score Creatures - May cull 1 die for each scored
2. Draw 6 dice, Roll (active pool), Ready dice (Cost in Quiddity = level, spells are free).
3. Attack Your Rivals
5. Move Dice from Spent Pile to Used Pile
When bag is empty put Used Pile into bag
This page may be photocopied for in-game player use. All other rights reserved.

W
hen we last left off, our four friendly Quarriors were happily gaining Glory in 
the eyes of the Empress Quiana, exploring the Wilds, and capturing Quarry. 
What an enviable life!
But what are these dark shadows creeping into the Wilds? Why can I not go hunting 
for Quarry without having to spend hours cleaning this otherworldly ichor off my finest 
Quarrying boots?
All of these questions will be (somewhat) answered in...wait for it... 
Quarriors: Rise of the Demons!
(Hope you enjoyed that fancy lettering, it was very expensive.)
What’s New?
In this Quarriors Expansion, you will find new “Corrupted” versions of the 10 creatures in 
the original Quarriors game, as well as the all-new Demonic Overlord class of Creature, the 
Corruption Spell, and a new Basic die (Corrupted Quiddity)!
There are a couple things you should probably know before you try playing with the 
expansion:
Setup
Setup works in exactly the same way as the basic Quarriors game, except you now have 
another Basic die—Corrupted Quiddity—which is used in every game. This means that you 
will have 14 cards in the Wilds instead of 13.
WHere’s the cost?
Corrupted Quiddity dice are so bad, you can’t capture them directly from the Wilds! 
You can, however, gain them from effects of your own or your opponents’ dice. If a 
die instructs you or an opponent to “gain a Corrupted Quiddity die from the Wilds,” 
it means exactly that! Take the named die from the Wilds and put it in your Used 
Pile. If there are no dice in the Wilds to take, ignore the effect (unless of course an 
alternate effect is stated!).
Game Components
1 Rulebook: You’re currently 
reading it, duh!
20 quarry dice
Corrupted quiddity dice
Triple bursts!
They were on sale!
demon dice
We totally 
summoned a demon!
(Probably not a good idea.)
Corrupted spell dice
corrupted high-five!
Corrupted spell cards
come on reach for it!
Demon cards
000 scary demon guy!
corrupted 
quiddity card
better wash 
your hands after!
19 power cards
x10
x5
x5
off, our four friendly Quarriors were h
E
l
th W ld
ff
l
h
ld
ff

Triple Burst!
In addition to being simply evil, the Corrupted Quiddity die has a face that shows not one, 
not two, but three Burst symbols! When you roll this face, use the ability described on the 
Corrupted Quiddity Power Card (don’t get excited, you probably won’t be happy about it).
Why a triple Burst? Stay tuned to future Quarriors expansions to find out!
0, Quiddity?
This Quarriors Expansion introduces a new Quiddity value: 0! The 
Corrupted Quiddity die has two faces that have the Quiddity symbol, 
but with a 0 inside. If you roll this symbol, the die gives you nothing 
for your turn.
Remove from the game
Some cards in this Quarriors Expansion will ask you to permanently remove dice from 
the game. This is not the same as culling! When you remove a die from the game, it is 
gone for good: place it way off to the side or even back in your Quarriors Expansion box 
so you won’t be tempted to put it back in your bag!
Losing glory
It is now possible for a player to lose Glory during the course of the game. The 
minimum Glory you can have is 0, so if a player with 0 Glory is forced to lose Glory, 
their Glory total remains 0.
Was that supposed to hurt?
Some Creatures (like the Corrupted Ghostly Spirit) are immune to some types of damage. 
These Creature cards say “takes no damage” from a type of Creature, Spell, or player. A 
Creature with this ability cannot be destroyed by damage from that source. But, you can 
assign that type of damage to the immune Creature each time you are attacked, up to its 
defense value (but not more than that!)to protect your other Creatures.
How Do I Play With This?
Here are a few ways we recommend you play with the Quarriors: Rise of the Demons expansion: 
1. Quarriors, with a hint of Corruption: Shuffle the expansion cards in with the base Quarriors game and deal them out 
randomly like you normally would. A typical game should have 1-3 Corruption cards in it and give you a taste for some of 
the new mechanics.
2. Quarriors, with a side of Corruption: Shuffle the expansion cards separately and flip over 4-5 cards to start the Wilds, 
then fill in the remainder with cards from the base game. This is a good mix of old and new.
3: Quarriors, with two scoops of Corruption: Shuffle the expansion cards separately and use all the corruption you can 
handle to start the Wilds, then fill in what little remains with cards from the base game. Corruption overload!
4: Quarriors, the democratic way: You and your play group can diplomatically agree to set up the Wilds any way you 
choose, as long as nobody is mean about it.
Remove from t
he Wilds, then fill in what little remains with cards from the base game. Corruption ove
emocratic way: You and your play group can diplomatically agree to set up the Wilds any way you 
y is mean about it.
as nobody

uaxos was once a great Wizard serving (then) Princess Quiana as her personal oracle and mystic. Over years of 
heroic service he became known as the most powerful Quarrior in all of the land— able to defeat even the mightiest 
of foes. Until that fateful day…a powerful other-worldly thunderstorm heralded the arrival of the ferocious Tri-Clops 
(three-eyed) Dragon of Quarmageddon. After a tremendous battle lasting several days, Quaxos defeated the Dragon— but 
only after a slash from the Dragon’s poisonous claws had blinded him in one eye. Upon the Dragon’s death, Quaxos tried 
to determine who sent the Dragon by casting spells on the skull but to his surprise the skull turned to gold and its three eyes 
became enormous rubies. Quaxos was enamored of the skull and kept it as a prize, not knowing that the chaotic power 
of the Dragon still resided within, waiting to be unleashed upon the world once again. The power of the Golden Skull of 
Quarmageddon slowly caused Quaxos to go mad. Recognizing that the combination of his magical abilities and mental 
instability could be a danger to Quiana— in his last ounce of sanity, Quaxos left the service of the now Empress and became a 
hermit in a far off tower and spent all his hours gazing at the Golden Skull.
Since the Rise of the Demons, the land has been overrun with Mischievous Imps who caught wind of the Golden Skull of 
Quarmageddon and swarmed Quaxos’ tower. While fending off the Imps, Quaxos knocked into the relic, dropping it to the 
ground and unleashing the full-blown Quarmageddon that was held inside causing devastation for miles around. It is not yet 
known if Quaxos survived - but strangely the Imps remained unharmed…Empress Quiana has since called upon the mightiest 
Quarriors and those who are still untested to restore order and control the chaos that is QUARMAGEDDON! 
IMMUNITY
A number of Creatures have a special ability called 
“Immunity.” These creatures—through their link to Quiddity, 
natural toughness, or simply by being too stubborn to 
submit—cannot be affected by any spell effects or Creature 
abilities that your opponents hurl against them. They are 
not, unfortunately, immune to damage during an attack. 
Only effects and abilities described on the Power Cards are 
blocked by Immunity.
Of course, you can use your own effects and abilities on 
your own Immune Creatures, even if it might not be in the 
Creature’s best interest…
Example: This Gnome Barbarian has Immunity if a burst is rolled. Even 
though he is only level 1, he is not affected by the Quake Dragon’s nasty 
breath: he is not destroyed before the attack, and can be chosen as a (short-
lived) defender against the Quake Dragon’s attack value.
QUARMAGEDDON FAQs
• Strong Voodoo Doll — Burst ability is not optional. However, you may 
only take an Assistant die from the Wilds if one is available, and if 
none are available the rest of the effect still works.
• Strong Gnome Barbarian — Attack totals are determined prior to 
assigning Defenders in the Attack phase. If Strong Gnome Barbarian’s 
burst ability causes an attacker to destroy one of their creatures, it 
does not change the attack total (other player’s must deal with the 
original full Attack total).
• Mighty Voodoo Doll — the Mighty Voodoo Doll’s Burst ability allows 
you to take all Voodoo Doll dice from both your Spent and Used Piles 
and roll them when he is summoned. These dice are then added to your 
Active Pool and can be spent/readied as normal as it still occurs during 
Phase 2.
THIS SET 
INCLUDES:
For 2 to 4 players ages 14 and up

Components
uarmaggedon is over and it is time to celebrate! By 
order of the great Quarrius Maximus Epicus, and 
in honor of those mighiest of the mighty Quarriors, let the 
Qladiator Games begin! ...Oh you don’t know what those 
are? Well allow me to explain! From time to time Quarriors will battle 
it out in front of the public in the capitol’s Quoliseum. It isn’t all fun 
and games, as it serves as an opportunity for the best and brightest 
to try out new techniques and impress Empress Quiana and the 
legions of fans who travel from all over to see their heroes up close 
and in person. Just try not to get too close to the Pink Eye Cyclops...
for obvious reasons. This year the mystery challenge for the Quarriors who step into the Quoliseum is a tricky one indeed. The 
Quarrior who can best balance the intricacies of the Lock technique as well as when to capture the relentless Qladiator will find 
their Glory to be second to none! 
Terminology
 Locked Area: The Locked Area is a space within your Ready Area that can 
hold one Locked die. It is considered part of your Ready Area. Please note that 
Locking a Creature is different than summoning as it does not cost any Quiddity 
and any events that key off of summoning are ignored. 
 Lock: The action of placing a die with the Lock symbol into 
the Locked Area.
 UnLock: The action of removing a Locked die from the 
Locked Area, it goes to the Spent Pile if on your turn. If a die 
becomes UnLocked when it is not your turn it goes to your 
Used Pile. 
Locked Creatures: Creatures that are Locked in the Locked Area (have the Lock symbol showing and have been Locked).
These dice are still Creatures and can be affected as such from spell and Creature affects. They have values of zero for 
level, attack and defense for the purposes of spell and Creature effects, however if this changes the face of the die to an 
UnLocked face they are removed from the Locked Area and moved to the regular Ready Area (this is not considered UnLocking 
the die). When Locked they do not participate in combat and do not deal nor receive damage in combat.
Overview
Some Creatures have a Lock symbol on their die. If one or more dice with a Lock symbol are rolled, one of those dice (chosen 
by the active player) must be placed into the Locked Area. Placing a Locked die into the Locked Area instantly enables the 
abilities of that die, and the abilities are effective until the die is UnLocked by any of the players. A Locked die may be in play 
for multiple turns (it is NOT placed into your Spent or Used Pile normally), allowing the player or players to use the abilities for 
multiple turns.
Locking a Die
You may only Lock one Creature into your Ready Area per turn during Phase 2. To Lock a die, move it from your Active Pool to 
the Locked Area within your Ready Area. Once a Creature is Locked, you cannot UnLock it during your current turn. If you are 
exiting Phase 2 with any Creatures that have Lock symbols in your Active Pool, you must select one of the Creatures showing 
the Lock symbol and place it into the Locked Area. If you already have a die in the Locked Area, that die is UnLocked and 
placed in your Spent Pile, making room for the newly Locked die. In other words, if you had a Locked Creature and rolled only 
one Creature with a Lock symbol (assuming no more rerolls are possible) you MUST put the new Creature into the Locked 
Area at the end of Phase 2 and send the other to your Spent Pile.
Some Creatures allow you to place them in another player’s Lock Area – this does not count against your limit of 1 per turn 
into your Locked Area, and you may do this as many times as you are able.
Locked Die Effects
A Creature’s Lock ability is effective as soon as it is Locked. Some Lock abilities will have immediate effects, others will be 
available or effective during the various phases of a player’s turn. Some Lock abilities will affect all players, immediately upon 
Locking.
UnLocking a Die
UnLocking a die will instantly end all of its abilities and effects. The die is immediately sent to the Spent Pile if it’s the Active 
Player’s die, otherwise to the Used Pile.
A die can be UnLocked in 3 ways:
1) You (or another player) replace a Locked Creature with a newly Locked Creature that is showing a Lock symbol 
(reminder: you can only Lock one Creature into your Locked Area per turn). 
2) Any player destroys it with a spell - Depends on the spell text. 
3) Any player pays 2 Quiddity during their turn for it to be UnLocked. 
Designed by Jason Tagmire and Bryan Kinsella
Original Dice Building Game Mechanic by Mike Elliott and Eric Lang 

Notes for Quaxos’ Eye (which prevents you from paying 2 
Quiddity to UnLock it):
-If you roll the Lock symbol with 2 bursts, you must use step 
1 or 2 above to UnLock it.
- Once a player puts Quaxos’ Eye into my Locked Area is 
it my Creature? Yes, ownership has transferred to you. If 
Locked it goes to the new owner’s Spent Pile or Used Pile 
etc. 
A player can pay to UnLock another player’s Locked 
die only during phases 2-4 of their turn. The UnLocking 
immediately disables the ability and effects of the Locked die 
for all players. UnLocking a die only removes the ability going 
forward, it does not change an action or effect that has taken 
place previously in the players turn.
Reminder that spell and creature effects that rotate a die 
face to an UnLocked side do not send the die to the Used or 
Spent Piles and instead the die is moved to the regular Ready 
Area.
FAQ
• Drawing one or more dice – if a player draws 6 dice 
(examples: at the beginning of the turn) this counts as 1 
time the player drew one or more dice.
• The Locked Area is a part of the Ready Area. Only 1 die 
can be in the player’s Locked Area.
• The Locked Creatures are still Creatures for spell and 
spell like effects with all abilities at 0, however they do not 
attack nor defend in combat. Spells that destroy Creatures 
regardless of level (Ex: Death Incantation double burst 
affect) would work against a Locked Creature as would 
spells that affect Creatures of particular values (Ex. The 
Death Spell that targets a Creature below 6 defense would 
work).
• UnLocking a Creature (via any of the 3 methods) is not the 
same as destroying a Creature. Life Charm, which puts 
Creatures that are destroyed to your Active Pool instead of 
to the Used Pile, would not work for the UnLocked die.
• Locked Creatures do not attack/defend nor score like 
normal Creatures.
• You can attach spells to Locked Creatures, but generally 
they will not be useful as Locked Creatures cannot attack, 
don’t defend and don’t score. However future expansions 
may make this a useful technique.
• Pay: you subtract from your total, you must have the item 
(Glory or Quiddity) to perform the action.
Permission granted to photocopy this playmat for in game use. All other rights reserved.

Original Game Design by Mike Elliott and Eric M. Lang
Set Design by Andrew Parks and Sara Sterphone
Hail and salutations, mighty quarrior! It’s me, Quirk here to greet you Again 
and with great news! QUaxos has returned! The great and powerful mystic has 
resurfaced since his little...um...‘incident’ with a certain ‘quarmageddon filled tri-
clops skull.’ QUaxos’ tower is being re-built, but there is one problem. All of his 
Quartifacts, including the tri-clops skull, have been stolen, lost, or hidden! In an 
ef fort to retrieve his items, quaxos has enlisted his old friend ERNIE, an ancient 
guide, to rally up the bravest and most cunning Quarriors to help in his quest! 
Pack your sacks, folks! we’re goin’ questing!
Can you answer the call? ARe you ready for questing of the likes which have 
never been seen!? Can someone get me a change of undergarments!?!?
OVERVIEW
Your Creatures can now go on Quests! There are three different Quests included in the Quartifacts expansion, and Creatures 
can now be used to start new Quests or to challenge Quests that are being pursued by their rivals. Of course, you can also 
keep your Creatures in your Ready Area to attack the Creatures in your opponent’s Ready Areas if you’d like, so now you have 
all kinds of fun places to go!
Each Quest has a Level (1, 2, or 3) and there are four different versions of each Quest, so that allows for lots of questing 
variety. If a bunch of your Creatures start a Quest and survive till the start of your next turn, then you’ll earn Glory for that 
Quest and even get to roll a special Quest Die. The Quest Die can grant you lots of different rewards, and might even grant 
you a Quartifact! Quartifacts go into your Ready Area until you choose to attach them to one of your Creatures, who can then 
amaze and impress their friends with all sorts of special new powers.
So what are we waiting for!? Let’s get started on those quests!
The Quartifacts portion of Quarriors: 
Qultimate Quedition includes: 
36 Cards
1 new Basic Card: The Squire
15 new Creature Cards
8 new Spell Cards
12 Quest Cards
46 Dice
5 Basic Dice (Squire)
25 Creature Dice
10 Spell Dice
6 Quest Dice
4 Quest Markers
1 Glory Tracker with extended Glory Points
TO QUEST OR NOT TO QUEST
All of the new Creatures and Spells included in this expansion can be used with or without the new Quest Rules. If you want, 
you can just add those Creature and Spell Cards to the rest of your collection and play the old game without the new Quest 
Rules. If you decide to do that, just place the Quest Cards and Quest Dice back in the box, as well as the new Squire Basic 
Card and his corresponding dice (he isn’t very useful unless you’re playing with Quests!). But if you’d like to go out hunting for 
Quartifacts, then follow the rules in the next section to set up the Quest Area.
Original Game Design by Mike Elliott and Eric M. Lang

SETTING UP THE QUEST AREA 
After you’re done setting up the normal game, proceed with these steps to get yourself ready for Questing:
1) Place the Squire Card in the Wilds with the other Basic Cards, and place his 5 dice on top of his card. You can capture 
him just like any other die in the Wilds, and his text even allows you to capture another die on the same turn. How’s that 
for being helpful? This little guy is only Level 0, which means you can summon him for free!
2) Designate an Area beneath the Wilds and call it the Quest Area. This is where the Quest Cards and Quest Dice are going 
to go, and where a player’s Creature dice will go when they want to start or challenge a Quest. The Quest Area is a new 
Area of the game, separate from the Wilds and from the players’ Ready Areas, so make sure you leave a little space 
between it and the other parts of the game.
3) There are three Quests Types— Holy Quail (Level 1), Exqualibur (Level 2), and Tri-Clops Skull (Level 3). Each Quest 
Type has four different versions (Hunt, Search, Expedition, Quest). The “Expedition” version of each Quest Type assumes 
you’re playing with all previous Quarriors sets (Rise of the Demons, Quarmageddon, and Quest of the Qladiator). If you’re 
not playing with these sets, remove the Expedition version of each Quest Type. Also, separate the 3 different types of 
Quest Cards: The number of players in the game will determine how many of these different Quest Types you’ll be playing 
with— the rest go back in the box along with their corresponding Quest Dice.
2 players— only keep the Exqualibur (Level 2) Quest Cards
3 players— keep the Holy Quail (Level 1) and Tri-Clops Skull (Level 3) Quest Cards
4 players— keep all the Quest Cards out…you’re playing with the whole enchilada!
4) Now shuffle the remaining cards for each Quest Type separately, and then flip one version of each Quest Type face up 
into the Quest Area. The rest go back in the box. When you’re all done, you should have 1, 2, or 3 Quest Cards in your 
Quest Area (depending on the number of players, see #3 above), and each Quest Card should be a different Level.
5) Each Quest Card has two Quest Dice associated with it. Place each pair of Quest Dice on top of their corresponding 
Quest Cards. Remember: if you aren’t playing with a particular Quest Type (due to the number of players), then just place 
that Quest’s dice back in the box.
6) Give each player a Quest Marker that matches the color of their Glory Track Marker. Players use these to identify their 
Creatures when they’re out questing.
7) When playing with Quests, please use the new Glory Tracker. Since there’s all kinds of 
Glory to be had while Questing, there are more ambitious Glory Goals to be achieved! 
Consult the Chart at right to see the new Glory Goals. The game doesn’t end until 
either someone reaches the Glory Goal referenced on the chart or there are four or 
more empty Creature Cards in the Wilds. If you’re playing without the Quests, then use 
the old Glory Tracker instead.
All right, now for the fun part! I hope you take me with you.
NEW PHASE DESCRIPTION
There’s now more stuff you can do during each of the game’s Phases, so here’s a quick list of the Phases with those things 
included. The new things are in BOLD!
1. Score Creatures and Complete Quests
2. Draw, Roll, and Ready Dice, and Attach Quartifacts
3. Attack Your Rivals, Start Quests, and Challenge Quests
5. Move Dice to Your Used Pile
Glory Goals
# of Players
Required Glory

Phase 3 now provides you with some important new options. Each of the Creatures in your Ready Area can choose to stay 
there and attack your rivals like normal, or they can move to the Quest Area in order to start a new Quest or to challenge an 
opponent’s Creatures on their Quest. Although you can do these things in any order, you have to decide ahead of time which of 
your Creatures are staying in the Ready Area and which are going to the Quest Area. Keep in mind that players can cast Spells 
on Creatures even if they’re in the Quest Area unless it’s specifically limited to other Areas.
Any Creatures that stay in your Ready Area attack each of your opponents’ Creatures in their Ready Areas like normal; they 
don’t affect anything in the Quest Area. Just follow the normal rules for attacking those Creatures. You’re allowed to keep some 
of your Creatures in the Ready Area and send the rest to the Quest Area if you wish. 
IMPORTANT: Assistants hate questing! It makes their tender footsies sore. You must always leave all of your Assistants in 
your Ready Area, no matter what.
STARTING A QUEST 
Any Creatures that you send to the Quest Area have to stick together. They’re a merry band of adventurers now! Therefore, 
they have to either start the same Quest or challenge the same Quest (i.e. you can only visit one Quest Card per turn).
If there is at least one empty Quest Card, you can choose to have your Creatures start that Quest. Simply place your chosen 
Creature dice beside that Quest Card and they’re on their merry way! Of course, you should make sure that the combined 
Levels of all the Creatures starting the Quest are equal to or greater than the Level of the Quest, or they’ll have no chance of 
completing it. And oh yeah, make sure you put your Quest Marker with your Creatures so they’ll remember that they belong to 
you. If your Creatures survive until the start of your next turn, they might succeed in completing the Quest (more on that later).
CHALLENGING A QUEST 
If there is at least 1 Quest Card with your opponents’ Creatures beside it, you can challenge that Quest. Here’s how it works:
1) The Challenging Player places their Creatures in the Quest Area beside that Quest and marks them with their Quest 
Marker. Both sides then attack each other simultaneously. Each player totals up their Creatures’ attack values and inflicts 
that much damage on their opponent’s Creatures. Both sides choose their own defenders one by one until all the damage 
is accounted for. All destroyed Creatures are returned to their owners’ Used Piles. Both players can use Reaction Spells 
in their Ready Areas during the Challenge; the players go back and forth deciding whether or not to use their Spells until 
both players have passed in sequential order.
2) The Challenging player immediately scores 1 Glory Point for each Creature they destroy. The original player who was on 
the Quest doesn’t get anything, no matter how many Creatures they kill. Such are the spoils of... well, being a spoiler!
3) If the Quest Card still has one or more of the original Questing Creatures left, then those Creatures are still on the Quest, 
even though they may have been weakened somewhat by their Challengers. Because the Challengers didn’t wipe out all 
of their foes, any Challenging Creatures who survived return to their owner’s Used Pile, exhausted by their efforts! This is 
true even if they received Glory for killing some of the original Questing Creatures.
4) If all original Creatures who were on the Quest are eliminated, then the Challenging player has the option of having their 
surviving Creatures start the very same Quest. If they choose not to, then their surviving Creatures are returned to their 
Used PIle. 
COMPLETING A QUEST 
At the start of a player’s turn, if they have Creatures beside a Quest Card, they see if they complete that Quest. Basically, each 
Quest has a total Level requirement. So for the Level 1 Quest, you only need a single Level 1 (or higher) Creature to complete 
it. For a Level 2 Quest, you need either a Level 2 (or higher) Creature or at least two Level 1 Creatures left on the Quest. For a 
Level 3 Quest, you need either a Level 3+ Creature or some combination that equals 3 Levels or more. You get the idea.
If a player doesn’t have enough Levels to complete the Quest (i.e. due to Challenges from other players), then their 
Creatures return to their Used Pile (in shame!) 
If a player does have enough Levels, then they successfully complete the Quest. Their Creatures still go to their Used 
Pile (but in victory!). Although they don’t score the Creatures’ normal Glory Points, they do still get to cull one die for each 
successful Creature returning from the Quest. They then score the amount of Glory listed on the Quest itself (only one time, 
not once per Creature). Finally, the player gets to roll the Quest Die associated with that Quest and reap the rewards!
IMPORTANT: For purposes of card text, a Creature who helps complete a Quest is not scoring! A Creature only “scores” 
when it is in your Ready Area at the start of your turn. When a Quest is completed, it is the Quest that scores, not the 
Creatures.
If you have some Creatures scoring in the Ready Area and some completing a Quest during the same turn, you get to decide 
which to do first.
ROLLING THE QUEST DIE 
When a player’s Creatures complete a quest, they not only score Glory but they also get to roll the Quest Die and reap the 
rewards! Three of the results on the Quest Die are instant rewards: bonus Quiddity, bonus dice added to the Active Pool, or a 
special bonus indicated by a large Question Mark that is defined on the corresponding Quest Card. If one of these three results 
is rolled, the player receives the reward immediately and then returns the Quest Die to its place beside the Quest Card.
QUARTIFACTS 
Three of the results on each Quest Die represent Quartifacts! A Quartifact is a magical object with a special name. Sometimes 
you’ll get the Quartifact that the Quest is named after. Other times you’ll get a completely different Quartifact.
For example, you might have gone searching for the Holy Quail, but instead you may find the Holy Quill! 
When you discover a Quartifact, place the Quest Die in your Ready Area and be careful to keep the correct Quartifact pip 
face up. During Phase 2 of your turn, you can attach the Quartifact to one of your Creatures after you summon that Creature. 
The Quest Die is then placed beside that Creature, who is considered to be carrying that Quartifact. The Creature then benefits 
from the special powers associated with that Quartifact, as defined on the corresponding Quest Card.
fro

A Quartifact has no power unless it is attached to a Creature. However, until you decide to attach it to a Creature, you 
can leave it in your Ready Area where it will remain until one of the following three things happens:
1) You attach it to a Creature you summon during Phase 2. The Quartifact stays with the Creature until the Creature scores, 
completes a Quest, returns from an unsuccessful Quest or Quest Challenge, or is destroyed, in which case the Quest Die 
is returned to the Quest Card. A Quartifact’s power is just too much for a Creature to handle for more than one turn!
2) You complete another Quest and receive a new Quartifact, in which case the old Quartifact is returned to its Quest Card. 
You can never own two Quartifacts at the same time, even if they’re from different Quests.
3) Another player completes the same Quest and there is no Quest Die left (i.e. both dice associated with that Quest have 
been claimed by other players). In that case, the new player completing the Quest seizes the Quartifact from the hoarding 
player of their choice and rolls it to determine their own Quest reward as normal. The other player is out of luck!
IMPORTANT GAME TERMS 
Pay attention to these Game Terms used in card text.
1) Questing: Any Creature who is in the Quest Area, whether pursuing a Quest or challenging a Quest, is considered to be 
“Questing.”
2) Accompany: Any friendly Creatures who are in the same Area (Ready Area or Quest Area) are said to be “accompanying” 
one another. Friendly Creatures who are in different Areas aren’t accompanying one another, but they can send postcards!
3) Attacking / Defending: Creatures who are battling one another during a Quest Challenge are considered to be both 
attacking and defending (since they’re all simultaneously beating one another senseless!) 
4) Immunity: Immunity is a special power that was introduced in Quarmageddon that protects Creatures from Spell effects 
and Creature abilities. The protection bestowed by Immunity now extends to the special abilities of Quartifacts as well. 
Note that Immunity does not protect a Creature from plain old damage during an Attack or a Quest Challenge, and you can 
always use your own effects and abilities on your own Immune Creatures, even if they ask you really, really nicely not to!
By the way, if an ef fect ever reduces a Creature’s summoning cost below zero, then the cost is 
considered zero. Take that, rules lawyers!
EXPERT RULES AND QUESTING 
The Quarriors Base Game introduced the Expert Rules that only permit a player to cull the actual dice that score and prohibit 
a player from receiving Glory unless they cull those dice. When using the Expert Rules with Questing, a player who completes 
a Quest can only cull the Creatures who successfully completed that Quest. Furthermore, a player cannot score Glory for 
a Quest unless they cull all Creatures who completed that Quest. However, a player who does not wish to cull all of their 
Questing Creatures may still roll the Quest Die and receive its reward.

Designed by Mike Elliott and Eric M. Lang 
The Quarriors: Light vs. Dark portion of Quarriors: 
Qultimate Quedition includes: 
• 8 Large Quiddity Dice
• 16 Assistant Dice
• 40 Quarry Dice (5 each in 8 different color 
combinations)
• 43 Power Cards
The Assistant dice in this expansion have three different 
matching cards, each with a different ability! All other 
dice have five different cards instead of three. The Large 
Quiddity Dice don’t have a matching card. 
POWER CARDS
In Quarriors: Light vs. Dark, below a die’s cost is its 
energy type and discounted energy cost. Dice of a 
given type produce that type of energy, and you can 
purchase that die at a discounted cost if you spend 
at least one Quiddity of that energy type to purchase 
that die.
The colored box at the bottom (yellow or 
black) is the card’s Anchored Spell. Not all 
cards have Anchored spells, but if any do, 
these anchored spells are additional abilities 
that you, the mighty Quarrior, get just because 
the card is in the Wilds! 
An Anchored Spell has a specific cost in 
Light or Dark Quiddity. Once per turn, a player 
can pay that cost to activate an Anchored Spell 
on one card in the Wilds. The player does not 
even need to own the die to use the Anchored 
Spell! 
DICE
Quarriors: Light vs. Dark also introduces a few 
new symbols on dice as outlined below:
 Light Quiddity: When you roll this 
symbol, you can spend this die to 
gain the amount of Light Quiddity 
shown. Light Quiddity can be used 
for anything normal Quiddity can 
be used for, but Light Quiddity also 
has special properties that will be 
explained later.
64 assorted Dice
43 Power Cards
Anatomy of a Card
Base Cost
Discounted 
Cost & 
Energy Type
Text Box
Die Face 
Reference
Glory Value
Cool Art
Card Name
Creature Faces
Energy Faces
Anchored 
Spell
Burst Effect
Designed by Mike Elliott and Eric M. Lang

 Dark Quiddity: When you roll this symbol, you can spend this die to gain the amount of Dark Quiddity 
shown. Dark Quiddity can be used for anything normal Quiddity can be used for, but (you guessed it!) 
Dark Quiddity can also do unique stuff that you’ll find out about later.
 Immediate Effect: When you roll this symbol, check the Power Card associated with that die. It will tell 
you what to do! This is an Immediate Effect, and you can only use it immediately after rolling.
SETUP
Setup of the Wilds for Quarriors: Light 
vs. Dark is very similar to other Quarriors 
experiences. Here are the differences 
highlighted for you, mighty Quarrior:
Unlike other expansion, you never 
use Basic Quiddity card, the plain old 
Assistant card, or the Portal card. If you 
do, you’ll tear a rift in the very space-
time Quontinuum! Also, the game won’t 
work
Instead, start by grabbing the three 
cards named “Assistant of [Something]”. 
Select one of these at random and place 
it face up in the middle of the table to 
start the Wilds!
Then, place the other 2 Assistant 
cards back in the box.
After that, grab the Creature Cards 
and shuffle then together. Start turning 
over cards from the shuffled creature 
cards and add them to the Wilds one at 
a time. If a card is revealed whose class 
matches the class of a card already in 
the Wilds (like Black Cat), place that 
card back in the box. Continue doing 
this until there are 6 Creature Cards in 
the Wilds or 7 if you’re mixing Quarriors: 
Light vs. Dark with other expansions.
After you’ve got all your Creature 
Cards in the Wilds, do the same thing for 
Spell Cards until you have 2 Spell Cards 
in the Wilds or 3 if you’re mixing with 
other expansions.
Each player gets 4 Assistant Dice which go into their bag. Each player also gets 2 Large Quiddity Dice which 
never go into their bag and are placed off to the side for now. Return any leftover Assistant and Quiddity Dice to 
the box.
Pretty simple, right?! Not a whole lot changes for set up, but the quimplications are quite quizzically quofound 
during the game!
LARGE QUIDDITY DICE
Unlike the other dice, Quiddity Dice are never added to your collection. Instead, at the start of each of your turns, 
add the 2 Quiddity Dice to your Active Pool. As you spend Quiddity from these dice, the dice go to your Spent Pile. 
At the end of your turn, instead of placing them in your Used Pile, place the Quiddity Dice to the side until your 
next turn. Quiddity Dice are never added to your bag and cannot be targeted by any effects except for “re-roll.”
The Large Quiddity Dice also grant more Quiddity per die than the original Quiddity Dice, and they even generate 
Light and Dark Quiddity!
We made the Quiddity dice larger as a physical reminder that they are not treated like ordinary dice. 

IMPORTANT CHANGE TO PHASE 2: DRAW, ROLL, AND READY DICE
Normally during this phase you shake up your bag and blindly draw 6 dice. When playing with Quarriors: Light vs. 
Dark rules, draw only 2 dice and add them to your Active Pool. After your ﬁ rst two turns, draw 3 dice each turn 
instead of 2. Regardless of what turn it is, you always take the 2 Large Quiddity Dice and add those to your Active 
Pool in addition to those you draw. You should have a total of 4 dice in your Active Pool on turns 1 & 2 and 5 dice 
for each turn thereafter. 
Immediate Effects
Immediate Effects function identically to previous Immediate Effects. However, instead of Immediate Effects being 
on the card with the IMMEDIATE qualifier, there will be a question mark symbol on the die face to denote an 
immediate effect.
IMPORTANT NOTE ON PHASE 4: CAPTURE ONE QUARRY DIE FROM THE WILDS
Some abilities and effects allow you to add dice to your Active Pool during an opponent’s turn. If this happens, 
leave those dice in your Active Pool until your next turn, at which point you’ll get to roll them in addition to all the 
other dice you drew from your bag to roll for that turn.
Example: Since it’s his third turn, Quade draws 3 dice out of his bag and adds them to the Herald Die that is already sitting in his Active Pool. He then adds his 2 
Quiddity Dice. Finally, he rolls all 6 dice. Unfortunately, one lands on the pizza and he has to re-roll it. 
Below their base cost, the Creatures in this set also have a Discounted Quiddity Cost. This allows a player to 
pay the amount of Quiddity shown in the Discounted Quiddity Cost section if the player pays at least one Quiddity 
of a special type (Light or Dark), as indicated on the Creature’s Power Card.
Example: Quinn has a total of 5 unspent Quiddity: 2 Light Quiddity and 3 normal Quiddity. He’d like to to capture a Greater Quartz Golem from the Wilds, 
but this normally costs 6 Quiddity to capture. Fortunately for Quinn, the Greater Quartz Golem has a Discounted Quiddity Cost of 5 Quiddity if at least 1 Light 
Quiddity is spent. Since Quinn has Light Quiddity to spend, he can capture the Greater Quartz Golem at the Discounted Cost of 5. 
Since Quinn can only capture one die each turn, if he had any Quiddity left over it would be lost. 
ADDITIONAL RULES
Anchored Spells
Anchored Spells are different from spells you cast from your Ready Area. Several Creature Cards have Anchored 
Spells listed in a yellow or black box in their card’s text area. Once during your turn, you can choose to spend the 
required Light or Dark Quiddity to activate an Anchored Spell listed on one Creature Card in the Wilds. It doesn’t 
matter whether or not you actually own a Creature Die associated with that card.
You can activate one Anchored Spell per turn, during any phase of your turn except for Phase 1. You can’t 
activate Anchored Spells during your opponents’ turns.
Culling Dice in Quarriors Light vs. Dark
If playing with Quarriors: Light vs. Dark rules, you cannot cull dice normally when a creature scores or completes 
a quest. Instead, some special powers allow you to cull dice from your collection. You can never cull the oversized 
Quiddity Dice. 
Card Text 
Power Cards use a variety of very specialized text. This section discusses specific cases.
“And Then” 
If a Power Card’s text includes the words “and then,” you must first accomplish whatever is specified before the 
words “and then” in order to do whatever comes after.
Example: Greater Archangel’s Anchored Spell allows you to spend 3 Light Quiddity in order to “Destroy 1 Dark Creature in any Ready Area, and then gain 1 
Glory.” You cannot gain 1 Glory unless a player had a Dark Creature in his or her Ready Area for you to destroy!

References to “Cost” 
If a Power Card’s text refers to the “Cost” of a Quarry, then it is referring to the normal Cost, not the Discounted 
Quiddity Cost.
Rotating Dice 
If a Power Card’s text allows you to “rotate” a Creature die to a higher level, then you should rotate that die to the 
next face immediately to the right of the current face as shown on the die’s Power Card; if this face is not a higher 
level, then go to the next face that is a higher level. If a Creature is at the highest level possible, then do not 
rotate it.
If a Power Card’s text allows you to “rotate” a Creature die to a lower level, then you should rotate that die to the 
next face immediately to the left of the current face as shown on the Power Card; if this face is not a lower level, 
then go the next face that is a lower level. If the Creature is at the lowest level possible, then do not rotate it. A 
Creature cannot be rotated to a non-Creature in this way.

Index
Quarriors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Active Pool. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Attacking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Avoiding Destruction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Capturing Quarry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Card Anatomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3, 4
Creatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6, 8
Culling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Defending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Dice Etiquette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9, 10
Dice Symbols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Drawing Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Immediate Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Playmat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Quiddity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Ready Area. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Scoring. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Spells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6, 8, 9
Spending Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Spent Pile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
The Wilds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Used Pile. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3, 7
Winning the Game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Your Bag . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Rise of the Demons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Dice Symbols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Losing Glory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Remove From The Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 12
Quarmageddon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 
Immunity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Quest of the Qladiator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Locking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14, 15
Playmat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 
Quartifacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Accompany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Challenging a Quest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Completing a Quest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Quartifacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Questing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Rolling the Quest Die . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16, 17
Starting a Quest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 
Light vs. Dark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 
“And Then”. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Anchored Spells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Capturing Quarry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Card Anatomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Culling Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Dice Symbols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20, 21
Drawing Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Immediate Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Large Quiddity Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Playmat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
References to “Cost” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Rotating Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Dice Building Game Design: Mike Elliott and Eric M. Lang
Executive Producers: Bryan Kinsella and Justin Ziran
Illustration: J. Lonnee and Chris Raimo
IP Development: Brian Roll and Bryan Kinsella
Development: Will Price and Bryan Kinsella
Playtesting: Drew Nolosco, Mark Shabunia, Brian Roll, Ben 
Cheung, Dan McCarty, Reilley Scott, Mike Turian, Bruce Kaskel, 
Woody Peterson, Chip Brown, Chris Harris, Calum Ferral, and 
Justin Ziran
Expansion Design: Andrew Parks and Sara 
Sterphone
Development: Bas Debbink, Timothy Gerstner, 
Michael Gradin, Christopher Guild, 
Manny O’Donnell, and Christopher Parks
Playtesting: Michael Cox, Christopher Doe, 
Dion Graham, Thomas Harbert, Cosmo Kwok, 
and Richard Mellott
Graphic Design: Chris Raimo
Development: Will Price and Bryan Kinsella
Playtesting: Brian Roll, Mike Gehrmann, Justin 
Ziran and Mark Shabunia
Development: Andrew Parks, Christopher Parks, Christopher Guild, Sara Sterphone
Playtesting: Michael Gradin, Manny O’Donnell, and Ada Terrizzi
Graphic Design: Edward Bolme, William Niebling, John Camacho, Chris Raimo
Development: Will Price, Bryan Kinsella, Ben Cheung
Playtesting: Ben Cheung, Dan McCarty, Reilley Scott, 
Bruce Kaskel, Woody Peterson, Chris Harris, Calum Ferral, 
Justin Ziran, James Epstein, and Quinn Elliott
Project Management: Kyle Payne
Graphic Design: Patricia Rodriguez
Expansion Design: Jason Tagmire and Bryan Kinsella
Development: Ben Cheung
Playtesting: Vincent Mondaro, Richard Kopacz, 
Michael Kornytchuk, Richard Bowman, Ben Torcivia, Ken 
Jonach, Cliff Field, Scott D’Agostino, Alex Strang, Marty Cobb, 
George Tagmire, Tom Bohley, Molly Sheeron
Graphic Design: Chris Raimo
WIZKIDS/NECA, LLC
603 Sweetland Ave,
Hillside, NJ 07205 USA
www.wizkids.com
© 2018 WizKids/NECA, LLC. All rights reserved. 
D i
Mik Elli tt
d E i M L