Bruno Cathala 
&
Bruno Faidutti 
For 2-4 players
Ages 8 and above
30-45 minutes
TM

SETTING UP THE GAME
◆Give each player a Summary card. New players should familiarize them-
selves with the roles and abilities of each character. Experienced play-
ers can also use the cards to refer to the relative proportion of
each type of gem.
◆Place the four red Fashion tiles between
the players, in the center of the table,
in the following left to right order: +30,
+20, +10, +0.
◆Shuffle the 4 Gem tiles behind your
back and randomly place one, face up,
below each fashion tile.
◆Stack the four blue Rarity tiles, and
put them aside until the first sale. 
The Fashion tiles show which stones are most in fashion, and which are
out of favor at the beginning of the game.
◆Take the deck of cards. Set aside the 3 Merchant cards and thorough-
ly shuffle the remaining cards. 
◆Deal 4 cards to each player. The player’s hand should be hidden from
others during the game.
Note: If a player is dealt an Astrologer, he discards it and draws another card
to replace it. The Astrologer is then shuffled back into the remaining cards.
◆Insert the three Merchant cards back into the deck, one at approximately
1/3 of the deck, another a 2/3 of the deck and the third among the bot-
tom 5 cards. 
◆Draw the five top cards from
the deck and place them
face up in the center of the
table. Place a Golden Ring
marker on the top number
in the upper right corner
box of each card. The num-
ber indicated with the ring
is the cost, in ducats, of the
card. Place the remainder
of the deck as a draw pile,
next to the five cards.
◆Randomly determine the first player (for instance the one who is wear-
ing the nicest jewelry that day).
The Jewelers of Place Vendôme
In the years prior to the French revolution, the jewelers of Place
Vendôme in Paris were the most accomplished in all the world. Their
prodigious skills, combined with the seemingly unending wealth of
their patrons, enabled them to create the most exquisite jewels for the
Kings and Queens of Europe and their courts. 
To keep their fickle clientele happy (and to stay profitable) the jew-
elers scoured all of Paris to acquire the precious gems needed for their
creations – all the while keeping a close eye on the Court’s ever-
changing sense of fashion. And when necessary, these crafty artisans
were not above buying a few favors to insure a favored position in the
King’s Court.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Assuming the role of King’s Jeweler, each player, through the course of
three years of apprenticeship, competes to craft and sell the most desir-
able jewels in the kingdom.
At the end of each year, the Merchant announces a sale, where jewelers
decide which of their creations they want to sell. The jeweler who earns
the most profit from their jewel sales after three years is awarded a title
of nobility, and a place at the King’s Court!
To succeed, each jeweler must balance the use of their limited funds between
buying expensive new gems; purchasing the favors of The King, Queen and
other important members of the court; or hiring a Thief or Forger. 
COMPONENTS
❦110 Tarot-sized cards:
• 59 Gem cards
• 7 Ring cards
• 1 Queen's Necklace card
• 33 Character cards
• 3 Merchant cards
• 4 Player summary cards
• 3 Blank cards (for you to create
your own characters and gems)
❦The Queen’s Necklace
❦12 tiles:
• 4 Gem tiles (Diamond, Ruby,
Emerald and Amber)
• 4 Fashion tiles (+30, +20, +10, 0)
• 4 Rarity tiles (+30, +20, +10, 0)
❦A Days of Wonder WebCard 
for access to Free online play
❦5 Golden Ring markers, to show
the current purchase value of
the cards during the Card 
purchase phase. 
Example: This year, Diamonds are most in
fashion, then Emeralds, Amber and Rubies.
Example: a game all set-up and ready to go.
Steal a card at random from 
another player’s hand.
“ How much trouble to steal! ” 
thought Beausire.
Thief
Choose an opponent. 
She must discard one gem
card of your choice.
“ Monsieur, tell these gentlemen 
that they tire my patience! I ask for
a diamond necklace, and they 
bring me a paste.”
Forger

A GAME TURN
◆Each player plays in turn, going clockwise.
◆A player’s turn is divided in three consecutive phases:
1– Influence
2– Card Purchase
3– Devaluation
◆Whenever a Merchant card is drawn, usually during the devaluation
phase, a Jewel Sale immediately takes place.
1–Influence Phase
The player may play from her hand as many “Influence” characters (the
blue cards) as she wishes. A player can only play cards that she had in
hand at the beginning of her turn.
When a card is played, its effect takes place immediately and the card is
discarded. For detailed information on the effects of the various cards see
The Cards section below.
2–Card Purchase Phase
Each player has 10 ducats that she can spend to buy cards from the five
cards displayed face up on the center of the table. The price for buying
a card is the number on the card circled with the Golden Ring marker.
A player must buy at least one card during her turn. If a player doesn’t
spend all 10 ducats, the remaining money is lost and cannot be saved for
the next turn.
3–Devaluation Phase
The Golden Ring marker on each card still displayed for sale on the table
is moved one spot down. These cards will cost less to buy for the next
player. If a marker is moved to the lowest position (with the card icon
crossed in red), the card is discarded.
Cards that have been
bought or discarded are
replaced with new cards
drawn from the top of the
draw pile. The Golden
Ring is placed on the top
number of each one of
these new cards.
If a Merchant card is
drawn, a Jewel Sale imme-
diately takes place (see
below). After a sale, the game resumes where it where it was stopped, and
a new card is drawn to replace the Merchant.
JEWEL SALE
There are three Jewel Sales, one for
each year of apprenticeship. The
game ends after the third sale.
During each sale, the players try to
sell to the King’s court some of the
jewels they produced during the year. 
During a Jewel Sale, players will dis-
play the jewels of their choice in
rows of gems cards and associated
cards, like in the example below.
The basic rule of a sale is: Only the jeweler displaying the most gems of a spe-
cific gem type wins that gem sale and collects any money.
The three steps to a sale are:
1-Displaying the jewels
◆Each player secretly chooses the gray “Sale” cards (gems and extra jew-
els such as rings, and necklace, plus the Banker or King) that she wants
to display for sale. 
Example: with her 10 ducats, the player can buy:
• The Ring card
• The Confessor and the Banker
• The 1 Emerald card and either the 2 Ruby card 
or the Confessor card
• The 2 Ruby card and the Confessor card
Look at all the cards in another
player’s hand.
“ Do not seek to know the future; 
good or bad, let it rest 
– it is in the hands of God.”
Confessor
Increase the value of each jewel
you sell by 10 pounds.
“ This matter becomes complicated,”
said the banker.
Emerald
Example: The Confessor and Banker cards have been replaced
by two new cards: three diamonds ans a second Ring.
Emerald
Example: Barnaby chose to display 1 Diamond
and a King, 4 Rubies, no Emerald and 4 Ambers.
During a sale, any jewels of the
gem type with which the King is
played are rendered worthless.
Beware the Queen’s Necklace!
“ ’Tis a horrible trick of the king.”

◆A player is not bound to select all her gem and other gray cards
for display, and can even choose to display none.
Tip: When choosing cards to display at a sale, a player should conceal
the number of cards and even the num-
ber of different piles that she will play.
Players can stack their piles one over
another under their hand, with the most
fashionable gem type on the top. By
alternating one pile face up and one
face down, it will be clear which special
cards go with each gem type.
◆If a player wants to play a Ring
card or a King card, she must place it
with at least one gem card of a given
type, so as to clearly show that the
Ring or King is played on this specif-
ic gem type.
◆The Banker card can be played with
any set of gem cards, since it affects
all the sales by that player.
◆All players simultaneously place all
the cards they want to display in front of
them face up, with each gem type in a
different row on display, from most fash-
ionable to least fashionable. Rings and
Kings are placed in the same row as
the gem(s) they have been played with.
Tip: To further maximize the dramatic
tension of each jewel sale, players may
want to reveal the stacks hidden under
their hand into rows of visible gems on
display one gem type at a time, from
most fashionable to least fashionable,
rather than all at once. However, the
content of the rows must remain iden-
tical to the stacks the players readied
beforehand (For example: Amy cannot
change the contents of her Emerald
cards for display based on the content
of the Diamonds and associated char-
acters just revealed).
2 - Rarity
◆After all displayed cards have been
revealed; players count the total num-
ber of gems of each type on the cards
played by the players.
◆The Rarity tiles are placed below the
gem tiles. The +30 rarity tile is placed
under the rarest gem (the gem type
with the lowest total amount of gems
on display cumulatively to all players).
The +20 tile is placed under the sec-
ond rarest gem, and so on. If two gems are displayed in identical quan-
tities, the most fashionable one is also considered the rarest.
3 - Selling jewels
For each gem type, the player with the greatest number of gems of this
type on display is the only one to complete the sale and collect any money
(Pounds = victory points). If two or more players tie for the most gems
of a particular gem type, all tied players sell their jewels.
The selling price for each jewel, between 0 and 60 pounds, is the sum of
the values (+30, +20, +10, +0) on the fashion and rarity cards above
and below the gem type card.
For each Ring card played by the winner of a given gem
sale in association with her gem cards of that type, the
player will collect an extra sale of that jewel (For exam-
ple: if the winner of the diamond sale played two rings with
her diamond cards, she will sell three diamonds, for triple
the normal sale price). 
Scores for each player are written down. A score-sheet
is available for download from www.queens-neck-
lace.com, but you can use any piece of paper.
After the sale, all the cards displayed
are discarded, the rarity tiles set aside
until the next sale, and the game resumes where
it had been interrupted by the merchant. 
GAME END
The player with the most pounds (highest score)
after the third and final sale wins the game.
Increase the value of each
jewel you sell by 10
pounds.
“ This matter becomes com-
plicated,” said the banker.
Cards displayed by Charles
Charles has the most Rubies (tied with Barnaby)
and sells 1 Ruby jewel. The normal price for a
Ruby jewel is only 10 pounds, but since Charles has
played a Banker, he gets 10 extra pounds for each
jewel sold. He therefore gets 20 pounds.
During a sale, any jewels of
the gem type with which the
King is played are rendered
worthless. Beware the
Queen’s Necklace!
Cards displayed by Barnaby
Barnaby has the most Amber stones, and the
most Ruby (tied with Charles). He sells one Amber
jewel, for 30 pounds, and one Ruby jewel, for 10
pounds, and scores 30+10=40 pounds.
Cards displayed by Amy
Amy has the most Emeralds, and has played two
Ring cards with her Emeralds. She sells 3 Emerald
jewels and scores 3 x 20 = 60 pounds. She doesn’t
score anything for Diamonds, because the King
played by Barnaby cancels all Diamond sales.
Example: Gem Tiles with Fashion and Rarity
Tiles during Jewel Sales.

THE CARDS
Influence (blue) Character cards
Blue character cards are indicated by their blue markings and title. These
cards must be played on their owner’s turn during the influence phase.
❦Confessor (4 cards) 
— You shouldn’t hide anything from him… 
Look at all the cards in the hand of another player of your choice.
❦Courtier (3 cards)
— The Courtier can help you get influence in the court – if he has any. 
You have three extra ducats this turn for purchasing cards. You can
therefore buy cards for a total value of up to 13 ducats (16 ducats if you
play two courtiers, and 19 if you play three).
❦Forger (3 cards)
— Be careful – some stones look too good to be true. 
Choose another player and a gem type. That player must discard a gem card
of this type. If she has none, she must show you her hand to prove it.
❦Favorite (3 cards)
— She decides what is in
- and out - of fashion 
at the King’s court. 
Choose one of the four gem
tiles and place it below the #1
fashion card. Shift the other
gem type tiles to the right
without changing their rela-
tive order. Any gap should be
filled by shifting the tiles so
that there is a gem card below
each fashion card.
❦Thief (4 cards)
— You missed something? Maybe its not too late, just ask the Thief… 
Choose an opponent and draw a card at random from her hand. You keep
this card in your hand, unless it is a Musketeer (see below). If you steal
the Queen’s Necklace card the owner must give you both the necklace and
the card.
Purple Character cards
These cards are indicated by their purple markings and title, and can be
played at different times during the game.
❦Alchemist (1 card)
— Though the Alchemist didn’t succeed in transmuting lead into gold
yet, he has achieved some interesting results with gems… 
The Alchemist must be played during a sale, immediately after the cards
displayed by all the players have been revealed. The alchemist allows you
to transmute one of your true gems (Ruby, Emerald or Diamond) card into
another type of gem of your choice, and therefore to move a gem card dis-
played in one row to another row. The Alchemist cannot affect Amber, nor
can he change a gem into Amber. If an Alchemist is played during a sale,
gem rarity is calculated and set after the Alchemist has effected his
transmutation of gems.
❦Astrologer (3 cards)
— Everyone at the King’s court wants to know what is written 
in the stars – you would also like to know your immediate future. 
Discard this card immediately after purchasing it. Then draw the top card
from the draw pile, don’t reveal it to the other players and place it direct-
ly in your hand.
Note: If you draw a Merchant, a sale takes place immediately. After the sale,
you will draw the next card from the draw pile and place it in your hand. 
If you draw another Astrologer, discard it and draw the next card from the
draw pile into your hand. 
❦Cardinal (2 cards)
— The power of the Church – no sales on a Holy day. 
The Cardinal can be played only when a merchant is drawn during
another player’s turn and a sale is about to take place. The decision to
use a Cardinal or not is announced in clockwise order, starting with the
first player on the left of the current player. The sale is delayed and will
take place at the end of your next turn. Place the Merchant on your left
to remind you of it. 
Note: If a Cardinal is played on the last merchant, the draw deck can be
exhausted before the game is over. In this case, the game resumes as usual until
the third sale, but the cards bought by the players are not replaced when the
draw pile runs out.
If two players play a Cardinal, the sale is delayed until the one the furthest
away from the current player in clockwise order is reached and plays.
Draw the first card from the Draw
pile and place it in your hand.
“ When I wish a thing to be known, 
I tell it; when I do not tell it, 
I wish it unknown.”
Astrologer
Cardinal
No sales on a holy day! 
Delay the sale until the end 
of your next turn.
“ Learn sir, that to do it as it suits me 
is to do it as it should be.”
Alchemist
During a sale, transmute one 
of your true gems into another
gem of your choice.
“Sir, you command 
in the name of science.”
Move the gem type of your
choice to “Most Fashionable”.
“Duke, I am frozen.”
Favorite
Steal a card at random from 
another player’s hand.
“ How much trouble to steal! ” 
thought Beausire.
Thief
Choose an opponent. 
She must discard one gem card 
of your choice.
“ Monsieur, tell these gentlemen that 
they tire my patience! I ask for a dia-
mond necklace, and they bring me a
paste.”
Forger
Look at all the cards in another
player’s hand.
“ Do not seek to know the future; 
good or bad, let it rest 
– it is in the hands of God.”
Confessor
You have the Queen’s favor 
– add 3 extra ducats to buy
cards during a turn.
“an audience… some good advice… 
a visit… at least, we will try 
to induce him.”
Courtier
Example: Favorite effect

❦Musketeer (4 cards) 
— All for one and one for all! 
The Musketeer can be used in one of three different ways.
◆If a player plays a Thief and draws a Musketeer from your hand, the Thief
has been caught in the act. The Thief and the Musketeer are both dis-
carded, and you can now draw a card at random from the hand of the
player who was attempting to steal from you (but if you draw a Musketeer
the same rules apply).
◆If a player plays a Forger against you, you can counter it by playing a
Musketeer. Both cards are discarded.
◆During the influence phase of her turn, a player can play three
Musketeers together to transfer the Necklace card and Queen’s Necklace
from its current owner to herself.
❦Queen (1 card)
— Better not try to resist the Queen’s caprice. 
Play this card when a gem card (and only a gem card) is drawn from the
draw deck during the devaluation phase. You take this card in your hand,
and the next card from the draw deck is drawn to replace it
Sale (gray) Character cards
These cards are indicated by their gray markings and title, and are played
face down during a sale. Gem cards played by a player during a sale must
be sorted by gem type (Diamond, Emerald, Ruby, Amber).
❦Gem cards: 
Ruby (2 cards ◆◆◆, 5 ◆◆, 7 ◆)
Emerald (2 cards ◆◆◆, 5 ◆◆, 7 ◆)
Diamond (2 cards ◆◆◆, 5 ◆◆, 7 ◆)
Amber (17 cards ◆)
These cards determine the different gems that you use to make your jew-
els. The more gems of a given type you have on the cards you display,
the nicer the jewel you will craft with these gems. On the
other hand, the more gems of a given type there are in the
cards displayed during the sale, the less rare (and the less
valuable) this gem is. It is thus desirable to have the major-
ity of gems on display for the gem types with the lowest
overall number of gems.
❦ Ring (7 cards)
Each player is focused on crafting the single nicest piece of jewelry for
each given gem type. If you play one or more Ring cards with some of your
gem cards, you have found a way to craft additional jewel pieces of this
kind. This is of interest only if you can sell them, that is only if you have
the most gems of this type on your displayed cards. Otherwise, the extra
Ring card is wasted. For each Ring card associated with a gem type of
which you have a majority in display, you sell an additional jewel of that
type. 1 Ring card played on a winning sale doubles the amount of money
received, 2 Ring cards triples it, etc… 
❦ King (3 cards)
— The King never pays.
The King cancels the sale of the specific gem type it is played with. The
player who has the most gems of this type on his cards cannot sell his
jewels and collects no money. When the sale ends, the gem cards thus
cancelled by a King are discarded just like any other gem card played dur-
ing the sale. Each player can only play a maximum of one King in any
given sale. 
❦ Queen’s Necklace (1 card)
— Only the Queen’s necklace will appease the King.
The player who acquires or receives this card must take the Queen’s
Necklace and wear it around her neck to make it known to all players.
The Queen's Necklace card, when played along a gem card during a sale,
protects such gems from the King cards.
If the Queen's Necklace and one or more Kings have been played on the
same gem type, the following two benefits are granted :
1– The effect of these Kings is cancelled and the player who has dis-
played the most gems of this type (regardless of whether she is
the necklace owner or not) wins the sale and collects the corre-
sponding victory points.
2– Furthermore, the Kings’ owner(s) must pay a tribute of 50 pounds
to the holder of the Queen’s Necklace. 50 points are subtracted
from her current score and given to the owner of the Necklace.
It’s possible that a player of the King might find herself with a neg-
ative score as a result.
❦ Banker (2 cards)
Regardless of the gem with which he is played, the Banker adds 10
pounds to the selling price of each jewel you will sell in this sale.
Queen
Play this card to take the gem card 
that has just been revealed.
“- a fit hand to hold a scepter.”
Musketeer
Protects from Thieves and Forgers
– play 3 together during your turn
to capture the Queen’s necklace!
“ He dexterously sent his sword 
flying from his hand; then, seizing it, 
he broke it across his foot.”
During a sale, any jewels of the
gem type with which the King is
played are rendered worthless.
Beware the Queen’s Necklace!
“ ’Tis a horrible trick of the king.”
Increase the value of each jewel
you sell by 10 pounds.
“ This matter becomes complicated,”
said the banker.
During a sale, protects the gems 
it is played with from the King’s
effect. The King’s owner must pay
you 50 pounds.
“ The jeweler who made this necklace 
is an artist.”
“ They are two.”
“ Then, I wager it is B... and B...”
Queen’s
Necklace

❦ Merchant (3 cards)
When a Merchant is drawn a sale takes place immediately. The Merchant
card is replaced by the next card in the draw deck. 
❦ Blank Cards
Use the blue and purple-marked blank cards to create the period char-
acters of your choice. Use the gray-marked blank card to create the
character, object or gem of your choice. Do not hesitate to post your best
suggestions on our forum at www.queens-necklace.com.
If you have questions or comments about the Queen’s necklace, please
e-mail us at info@queens-necklace.com 
QUEEN’S NECKLACE ONLINE
If you love to play Queen’s Necklace but sometimes find yourself without
playing partners, you can join our fast growing community of players in
Queen’s Necklace online. Enclosed in your game box is a free Days of
Wonder WebCard that includes your personal access code to sign up for
online play. To use it, simply visit: www.queens-necklace.com and click on
the New Player Signup button on the home page. Then just follow the
instructions to learn how to play online.
The queens-necklace.com website is filled with information: online tuto-
rials; tips and strategy discussions; links to the authors’ web sites; and
a forum where you can keep up with the latest game information, new
characters developed by other players, rules variations, and more.
You can also learn about other Days of Wonder games or visit us at:
www.daysofwonder.com
CREDITS
Game design by Bruno Cathala and Bruno Faidutti
Illustrations by Humbert Chabuel & Pierre-Alain Chartier
Graphic Design by Cyrille Daujean
Quotes by Alexandre Dumas Père 
Last known address : Le Panthéon, 
Place du Panthéon, 75005 Paris FRANCE.
© 2003 Days of Wonder, Inc. 
221 Caledonia Street, Sausalito, CA 94965
www.daysofwonder.com
Days of Wonder and Queen’s Necklace are trademarks of Days of Wonder, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.
A sale takes place immediately.
Merchant