®

USA / GB
INTRODUCTION AND PREPARATION
25 cubes are placed in the centre of the board. Each cube is characterised by its top face: blank face, or face 
with a circle or cross (fig. 1). At the beginning of the game, the cubes all have a blank top face (fig. 2). The two 
players or teams choose who plays with crosses, who plays with circles, and who is to start.
AIM OF THE GAME
To make a horizontal, vertical or diagonal line from 5 cubes bearing your symbol (fig. 5).
RULES FOR TWO PLAYERS
HOW TO PLAY
In turn, each player chooses a cube and moves it according to the following rules. In no event can a player 
miss his/her turn.
Choosing and taking a cube: The player chooses and takes a blank cube, or one with his/her symbol on it, 
from the board’s periphery (fig. 3). In the first round, the players have no choice but to take a blank cube. You 
are not allowed to take a cube bearing your opponent’s symbol.
Changing the cube symbol: Whether the cube taken is blank or already bears the player’s symbol, it must 
always be replaced by a cube with the player’s symbol on the top face.
Replacing the cube: The player can choose at which end of the incomplete rows made when a cube is taken, 
the cube is to be replaced; he/she pushes this end to replace the cube. You can never replace the cube just 
played back in the position from which it was taken.
Fig. 4: cube can be replaced on the board by pushing A, B or C.
END OF GAME: The winner is the player to make and announce that he/she has made a horizontal, vertical 
or diagonal line with 5 cubes bearing his/her symbol. The player to make a line with his/her opponent’s 
symbol loses the game, even if he/she makes a line with his/her own symbol at the same time.
 
RULES FOR FOUR PLAYERS
The players are in teams of two, the team members facing each other. Going clockwise, each player takes 
his/her turn (fig. 6: team A versus team B). The players agree whether conferring is permitted before the 
game starts.
HOW TO PLAY
In turn, each player chooses a cube and moves it according to the following rules.
Choosing and taking a cube: The player chooses and takes a blank cube, or one with his/her symbol on it if 
the point is pointing towards him/her, from the board’s periphery; as the direction of the point determines 
who in the team can play the cube.
Fig. 7: V & W can only be played by player A1; X, V & Z can only be played by player A2.
In the first round, the players have no choice but to take a blank cube.
You can never take a cube bearing your opponents’ symbol.
Changing the cube symbol: Whether the cube taken is blank or already bears the player’s symbol, it must 
always be replaced by a cube with the player’s symbol on the top face; the player will direct the point in such 
a way as to determine who in the team can play the cube again.
Replacing the cube: The player can choose at which end of the incomplete rows, made when a cube is 
taken, the cube is to be replaced; he/she pushes this end to replace the cube. You can never replace the 
cube just played back in the position from which it was taken. 
Fig. 4: cube can be put back on the board by pushing A, B or C.
A player must take his/her turn unless he/she is unable to take a blank cube, or one with his/her symbol on 
it if the point is pointing towards him/her, from the board’s periphery 
END OF GAME
The winning team is the one to make and announce that they have made a horizontal, vertical or diagonal 
line with 5 cubes bearing their symbol. The team to make a line from their opponents’ symbol loses the 
game, even if they make a line with their own symbol at the same time.
A GAME LASTS...
between 10 and 20 minutes. When playing in a tournament, the time allowed each player can be limited.
 
® & © Copyright 1995 GiGamic S.A. based on an idea by Thierry Chapeau.
®

C
A2
A1
X
Y
W
Z
V
0-3