OVERVIEW
The game spans 3 epochs.
After each epoch the players
tabulate the fame they have
earned.
The player with the most fame
at the end of 3 epochs is the
winner!
CONTENTS
1 Sgame board
180 tiles
48 VP tokens
16 suns
1 Ra figure
1 cloth bag
Reiner Knizia
A CHALLENGING GAME OF GODS,
MEN, AND THEIR MONUMENTS
The game spans 1500 years of Egyptian history
You seek to expand your power and fame
There are many ways to accomplish this:
Influencing Pharaohs • Building monuments
Farming on the Nile • Paying homage to the Gods
Advancing the technology and culture of the people
And all this for the glory of the Sun God Ra!
OVERVIEW
The game spans three epochs, which reflect the history of ancient
Egypt:
- the Old Kingdom (2665 - 2155 BC)
- the Middle Kingdom (2130 - 1650 BC)
- the New Kingdom (1555 - 1080 BC)
During these epochs, the players acquire tiles representing various
aspects of Egyptian life. They acquire the tiles in auctions, bidding
with suns, tokens they receive from Ra. The selection of tiles in the
auctions is ever changing, but tokens from Ra are limited. Wise players
choose carefully when and what to bid to get the tiles they want. When
an epoch ends, players receive tablets marked with the fame they have
earned.
The player with the most fame after three epochs is the winner.
CONTENTS
1 game board
180 tiles: 30 Ra, 8 God, 25 Pharaohs + 2 Funerals, 
25 Nile, 12 Floods + 2 Droughts, 
5x5 Civilizations + 4 Unrest, 5 Gold,
5x8 Monuments + 2 Earthquakes
48 VP tokens: 10x 1 Point, 8x 2 Points, 20x 5 Points, 10x 10 Points
16 suns
1 Ra figure
1 cloth bag
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-1

PREPARATION
Place the board in the middle
of the table.
Place the game tiles in the
cloth bag and shuffle them.
Each player takes VP tokens
worth 10 points. Place the rest
near the board.
Based on the number of
players, sort the suns into
groups.
Place the Ra figure next to the
board.
PREPARATION
Place the game board in the middle of the table. It has two different
tile tracks: the upper with 10 spaces (the Ra track) and the lower with 8
spaces (the auction track). There are tables on the bottom and top that
summarize the fame points which are scored at the end of each epoch.
Carefully remove the tiles from their frame before the first game.
Place them in the bag and mix them thoroughly. The area on the table
in front of each player is his play area (described below). This is where
he places his suns and the tiles he acquires.
Also, carefully remove the VP tokens from their frame before the first
game. The players take two value 5 tablets each and place them face
down in their play areas. Place the remaining tablets face up
beside the game board.
Sort the Suns - showing values 2 - 9 with two players, 2 - 13 with three
or four players and 2 - 16 with five players into groups as shown below
and place the groups face down on the table.
The players decide randomly which player receives which group. The
players place their suns face up in their play areas. Place the sun
numbered 1 face up on the sun space in the center of the game board.
Place the Ra figure next to the game board.
2 players
3 players
4 players
5 players
group 1
9 - 6 - 5 - 2
13 - 8 - 5 - 2
13 - 6 - 2
16 - 7 - 2
group 2
8 - 7 - 4 - 3
12 - 9 - 6 - 3
12 - 7 - 3
15 - 8 - 3
group 3
11 - 10 - 7 - 4
11 - 8 - 4
14 - 9 - 4
group 4
10 - 9 - 5
13 - 10 - 5
group 5
12 - 11 - 6
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-2

PLAYING THE GAME
The player with the highest
sun starts; continue clockwise.
Either:
- draw and place a tile or
- play God tile or
- invoke “Ra” 
Draw and place a tile on the
board
Ra tile k auction
Play God tile(s)
When a player plays a God tile, he
returns it face-down to the box
instead of on a row of the board.
As the playing of God tiles is done as
the player’s entire turn, a player may
only do this if he still has one or more
face-up suns in his play area.
Invoke Ra k auction
As this is a player’s turn action, a
player may only call Ra as his turn.
Each auction begins to the left
of the Ra player, each player
gets one bid, and the Ra player
is the last to bid.
PLAYING THE GAME
The player with the highest numbered sun begins. After his turn, play
continues around the table in the clockwise direction. 
On a player’s turn he performs exactly one of the following actions: 
• draw and place one tile on the board
• play God tile
• invoke Ra
A player without suns takes no actions on his turn. When the auction
track is full, players are limited to playing God tiles or invoking Ra.
Draw and place one tile on the board
On a player’s turn, he draws one tile from the bag and looks at it,
showing it to all players. 
When the tile drawn is a Ra tile, he places it on the next empty space
on the Ra track and places the Ra figure in his play area (the area
before him on the table). This begins an auction (see below). 
When a player turns over any other tile, he places it on the next empty
space on the auction track, ending his turn.
The player always places the tile drawn on the track in the next empty
space on that track starting from the left.
Note: when playing with less than 5 players, the first 4 (2 players), 
2 (3 players), and 1 (4 players) space(s) on the Ra track are not used. 
Play God tile
If a player has one or more God tiles in his play area, he may play one
or more of them to take one tile for each played from the auction
track. He returns any God tile played face-down to the box and places
the tile taken from the auction track in his play area. A player may not
take a God tile from the auction track or a Ra tile from the Ra track.
When gaps in the auction track result from this action, players fill
these with tiles drawn and placed on the track in later turns.
Anubis
Bastet
Chnum
Horus
Seth
Sobek
Thoth
Ut
Invoke Ra
The player says, "Ra", and places the Ra figure in his play area. This
begins an auction (see below). 
Auction
The player whose action caused the auction by turning over a Ra tile or
invoking Ra is the Ra player for this auction. He places the Ra figure in
his play area to indicate this. The auction begins with the player to the
left of the Ra player and continues clockwise once around the table,
ending with the Ra player. 
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-3

The players are bidding for the tiles in the auction track. The winner
also takes the sun in the sun space on the board. If there are no tiles in
the auction track, the winner gets only the sun. 
Each player, in turn, may bid one of their face up suns by placing it on
the edge of the board. Bids subsequent to the first must be greater than
the previous bid. A player may pass, choosing not to bid. However, for
an auction held when a player voluntarily invokes Ra, the Ra player
must bid if all other players pass. When a player involuntarily
invokes Ra because the auction track is full and he does not choose to
play a God tile, he may pass even if all others pass. In this case, all tiles
on the auction track are returned face down to the box. When an
auction is held due to a Ra tile being turned over, all players may pass,
including the Ra player, and the tiles on the auction track remain.
The player with the highest bid, takes all tiles on the auction track (if
there are any) and places them face up in his play area. Use the
example on the next page when placing the tiles in your play area as
this will make scoring easier later in the game. He also takes the sun
from the center of the board and places it face down in his play area.
Face down suns cannot be used for the remainder of this epoch, but
will be turned face up at the beginning of the next epoch. The player
then places the sun he bid face up on the sun space in the middle of
the board.
Remember, if all eight auction tile spaces have tiles on them, a player
may not draw and place a tile. He may only play God tiles (if he has
them) or invoke Ra. If he chooses to invoke Ra in this case, he does not
need to bid if no other player does.
Summary of Ra and auction rules:
k Invoke “Ra”: the player who invoked Ra must bid one of his suns, if
all other players pass. However, if at least one other player bids, the
player who invoked Ra may bid or pass as he chooses. Of course, all
other players may pass if they choose.
k Draw and place Ra tile: in this case all players, including the Ra
player, may pass and the auction tiles remain on the board.
k When the auction track is full and the player chooses to invoke Ra,
all players, including the Ra player, may pass. In this case, the tiles on
the auction track are removed and returned face down to the box.
k When the Ra track is complete, there is no auction. In this case, the
tiles on the auction track and the Ra tiles on the Ra track are removed
and returned face down to the box.
k After the auction is complete, the player to the left of the Ra player
continues the game by taking a normal turn.
The Epochs
As a player with no face up suns in his play area (i.e. he has used all
his suns) may take no more turns in the epoch, there are decreasingly
fewer players to compete for the tiles. When the last player with face
up suns uses his last sun and completes his turn, the epoch ends. All
tiles on the Ra track are returned face-down to the box; the sun in the
middle of the board remains for the next epoch.
The epoch also ends immediately, when the Ra track is full. In this
case, there is no auction (!) and all tiles are removed from both the Ra
track and the auction track and returned face-down to the box. Only
the face up sun remains on the game board. Unused face up suns in a
player’s play area remain face up for the next epoch.
The player with the highest
bid trades his sun for the one
on the board and takes all the
tiles from the auction track.
The Ra tiles always remain on the 
Ra track until the end of the epoch.
The other players return their bid
suns to their play areas. They can
use them to bid later in the epoch.
Auction track full with 8 tiles
k play God tile(s) or 
invoke Ra
Return all tiles removed from the
game face-down to the box. They will
not be used further in the game and
may not be examined by the players. 
After an auction, play
continues with the player to
the left of the Ra player.
A player without suns takes no
more turns in the epoch.
An epoch ends:
- all suns have been played, or
- the Ra track is full
An epoch ends with 6 Ra tiles for 2
players, 8 Ra tiles for 3 players, 9 Ra
tiles for 4 players, and 10 Ra tiles for
5 players.
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-4

Tiles and suns in player’s play area
Each player places his suns and tiles in five rows in his play area:
1. Suns and Gods 
2. Pharaohs
3. Nile and Floods 
4. Civilization and 
5. Monuments 
Disasters
When a player wins an auction and one or more disaster tiles are
included in the tiles a player takes from the auction track, he may lose
other tiles from his play area. First, he places all other tiles taken in
the auction into his play area. Then, he must "fulfill" the disasters by 
discarding two tiles from the category that matches the disaster. If the
player has just a single tile of the indicated category, he loses only this
single tile. If he has no tiles of the indicated category, he loses no tiles
due to that disaster. A player must fulfill all disasters he takes. 
A player may choose which tiles of the indicated category to discard,
except for drought. With drought, the player must first discard flood
tiles (up to 2 per drought) if he has any and then Nile tiles to bring the
total to 2 per drought. The chosen tiles are returned face-down to the
box along with the disaster tiles.
Funeral
Pharaohs
Drought
First Floods, then Niles
Unrest
Civilizations (free choice)
Earthquake
Monuments (free choice)
Place all tiles from a category next to
each other. Place like civilization and
monument tiles staggered on top of
each other. 
A player loses 2 tiles of the
matching category to each
disaster. Disasters must be
fully fulfilled when possible.
If a player has more than one
disaster tile of the same category, he
must fulfill them all.
Note: a player may take a disaster
tile with a God tile. In this case,
follow the rules above after placing
all acquired tiles in the play area.
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-5

At the end of an epoch, the tiles in the players’ play areas are scored
(see below). After scoring, all face down suns are turned face up. The
players will begin each epoch with the same number of suns. However,
the players will have different valued suns than they did at the
beginning of the game. The player with the highest numbered sun
begins the next epoch.
SCORING
If a player must give up more points
than he has, he gives all he has and
goes to the next round with none, but
need not “borrow” or go into debt.
Each GOD
k 2 Points
The fewest PHARAOHS
k -2 Points
-2 Points
The most PHARAOHS
k 5 Points
(remain in the players’ play areas)
Each NILE and each FLOOD
k 1 Points
(but, only if there is at least 1
flood!)
(Floods are removed from the game;
Niles remain in the players’ play areas)
After scoring, the players 
turn all suns face-up.
When bidding, a player should also
consider which sun he receives as he
will have it in the next epoch.
SCORING
At the end of each of the three epochs, the players receive fame for
their efforts in the form of tablets. After a player’s total fame has been
calculated, he receives (or loses) tablets equal to the total. 
The players keep their tablets face down in their play areas. 
Gods
Each God tile in the play area earns 2 points of fame for the player and
is returned face down to the box.
Pharaohs
After each epoch, the player with the most Pharaoh tiles receives 5
points of fame and the player with the fewest loses 2 points. 
If two or more players tie for most or fewest, each gains the 5 points or
loses the 2 points. 
If all players have the same number of Pharaoh tiles, no points are
awarded or lost. The Pharaoh tiles remain in the players’ play areas for
the next epoch.
Pharao
Example: The players Anna, Bob, Cathy, and Don have 3 - 2 - 2 - 3 Pharaohs. Anna
and Don earn 5 fame points each; Bob and Cathy each lose 2 points. 
Anna k 5 points
Bob k -2 points
Cathy k -2 points
Don k 5 points
Nile
After each epoch, each player receives one fame point for each flood
and Nile tile in his play area. However, he only receives these points if
he has at least one flood tile. Players without flood tiles do not score
points for their Nile tiles.
After scoring, all flood tiles are returned face down to the box. The Nile
tiles, however, remain in the players’ play areas for the next epoch.
Nile
Flood
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-6

Civilization
After each epoch, players with no civilization tiles in their play areas
lose 5 fame points. If a player has three different civilization tiles, he
earns 5 fame points, for four different tiles he earns 10 points and for
all five different tiles he earns 15 points. 
After scoring, all civilization tiles are returned face down to the box.
Art
Agriculture
Religion
Astronomy
Writing
Example: Anna has 3 astronomy, 2 agriculture and 2 writing tiles. She receives 5
points, since she has three different civilization tiles. For one each of astronomy,
agriculture and writing she would have received the same. Extra tiles of the same
civilization tile do not earn extra points. 
k 5 points
After each epoch, each player receives 3 fame points for each gold tile
in his play area. After scoring, the gold tiles are returned face down to
the box.
Monuments
Monuments are scored only after the third epoch. They remain in the
players’ play areas throughout the game. Players receive 1 fame point
for each different monument for up to 6 different monuments, 10
points for having 7 different monuments, and 15 points for having all
8 different monuments. In addition, a player receives a bonus of 5
points for each group of three identical monuments, 10 points for each
group of four, and 15 points for each group of five.
Fortress
Obelisk
Palace
Pyramid
Sphinx
Statues
Step pyramid
Temple
Example: Anna has 4 pyramids, 3 temples, 2 fortresses and 1 sphinx. After the
third epoch she receives 19 points (4 for four different monuments, 10 for four
pyramids and 5 for three temples). Thus, she receives points for all her monuments
except the second fortress.
k 4 points
m
m
5 points
No CIVILIZATION
k -5 Points
-5 Points
3/4/5 different
k 5/10/15 Points
Each GOLD
k 3 Points
MONUMENTS 
1-6/7/8 different
k 1-6/10/15 Points
3/4/5 same
k 5/10/15 Points 
(Monuments are scored only once, at
the end of the 3rd epoch)
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-7

The author and publisher thank all test players for their 
commitment and their numerous suggestions and comments:
Susanne Armbruster, Chris Bowyer, Dave Farquhar, Walburga
Freudenstein, Martin Higham, Markus Huber, Sandra Huber,
Ross Inglis, Kevin Jacklin, Christine Jilke, Chris Lawson, Ivan
Towlson, and Dominik Wagner.
If you have comments, questions or suggestions regarding this game,
please write us at:
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 45715, Rio Rancho, NM 87144, USA 
eMail: RioGames@aol.com or visit www.riograndegames.com.
© 1998 Reiner Knizia
© 2008 Rio Grande Games, Inc
Suns
Like monuments, the suns are scored only after the third epoch. Each
player sums the numbers on all his suns (both face up and face down).
The player with the highest total receives 5 fame points and the player
with lowest total loses 5 fame points. 
If two or more players tie for most or fewest, each gains or loses 5
points each. If all players have the same total, no points are awarded or
lost.
Example: The players Anna, Bob, Cathy, and Don sum their suns and calculate
their sums as: 17 - 25 - 21 - 17. Bob receives 5 points and Anna and Don each lose
5 points. Cathy neither gains nor loses points. 
Anna k -5 points
Bob k 5 points
Cathy k 0 points
Don k -5 points
GAME END
The player with the most
points after the third epoch is
the winner!
The lowest SUN Sum
k -5 Points
-5 Points
The highest SUN Sum
k 5 Points
Note: the tiles that remain in the
players’ play areas after scoring are
underlined on the tile summary on
the game board. All tiles not
underlined are removed after scoring.
The number in brackets shows the
number of disaster tiles for this
category.
GAME END
When the scoring after the third epoch is complete, the game ends.
Each player adds all points of fame on his tablets. The player with the
highest result wins. If two or more players tie with the highest total, the
player, among those tied for highest total, with the highest numbered
sun is the winner.
SPR_RG_RA_ENG-8