English Rules for RA 
 
 
The game spans 1500 years of Egyptian history. You seek to expand your power and 
fame. There are many ways to accomplish this: 
Influencing Pharaohs 
Building monuments 
Farming on the Nile 
Paying homage to the Gods 
Advancing the technology and culture of the people 
And all this for the glory of the Sun God Ra! 
The game spans three epochs, which reflect the history of ancient Egypt: 
the Old Kingdom (2665 - 2155 BC) 
the Middle Kingdom (2130 - 1650 BC) 
the New Kingdom (1555 - 1080 BC) 
During these epochs, the players acquire tiles representing various aspects of Egyptian 
life. They acquire the tiles in auctions, bidding with suns, tokens they receive from 
Ra. The selection of tiles in the auctions is ever changing, but tokens from Ra are 
limited. Wise players choose carefully when and what to bid to get the tiles they want. 
When an epoch ends, players receive tablets marked with the fame they have earned. 
The player with the most fame after three epochs is the winner. 
 
COMPONENTS 
1 Game board 
180 Tiles: 30 Ra, 8 Gods, 25 Pharaohs + 2 funerals, 
25 Nile, 12 floods + 2 droughts, 
5 x 5 civilization + 4 unrest, 5 gold, 
5 x 8 monuments + 2 earthquakes 
48 Tablets: 10 x 1 point, 8 x 2 points, 20 x 5 points, 10 x 10 points 
16 Suns 
1 Ra figure 
 
 

PREPARATION 
Place the game board in the middle of the table. It has two different tile tracks: the 
upper with 10 spaces (the Ra track) and the lower with 8 spaces (the auction track). 
There are tables on the bottom and top that summarise the fame points which are 
scored at the end of each epoch. 
Carefully remove the tiles from their frame before the first game. Shuffle them 
thoroughly and place them face down around the game board. The area on the table in 
front of each player is their display area (described below). This is where they place 
their suns and the tiles they acquire. 
Also, carefully remove the tablets from their frame before the first game. The players 
take two value 5 tablets each and place them face down in their display areas. Place 
the remaining tablets face up beside the game board. 
Separate the suns into groups as shown in the table below: 
 
 
3 players 
4 players 
5 players 
Group 1 
13 - 8 - 5 - 2 
13 - 6 - 2 
16 - 7 - 2 
Group 2 
12 - 9 - 6 - 3 
12 - 7 - 3 
15 - 8 -3 
Group 3 
11 - 10 - 7 - 4 
11 - 8 - 4 
14 - 9 -4 
Group 4 
10 - 9 - 5 
13 - 10 - 5 
Group 5 
12 - 11 - 6 
 
With 3 and 4 players, only suns numbered 1-13 are used. 
The players decide randomly which player receives which group. The players place 
their suns face up in their display areas. Place the sun numbered 1 face up on the sun 
space in the centre of the game board. 
Place the Ra figure beside the game board. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

THE DISPLAY AREA 
 
Each player puts his suns and tiles in five groups on the table before himself as shown 
below; the tiles are always face up: 
 
1. Suns and Gods 
 
 
Face up suns are available for bidding in the auctions; 
face down suns have been used and are not 
2. Pharaohs 
 
3. Nile and floods 
 
4. Civilization and 
Gold 
 
5. Monuments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PLAYING THE GAME 
The player with the highest numbered sun begins. After his turn, play continues 
around the table in the clockwise direction. 
On a player's turn, if he has at least one face up sun, he performs exactly one of the 
following actions: 
turn over one tile 
play God tiles 
invoke Ra 
A player without suns takes no actions on his turn. When the auction track is full, 
players are limited to playing God tiles or invoking Ra. 
 
Turn over one tile 
The player turns over one of the face down tiles from around the board. If a player 
turns over a Ra tile, he places it on the next empty space on the Ra track and places 
the Ra figure in his display area. This begins an auction (see below). The Ra tiles 
remain face up on the Ra track until the end of the epoch. 
When a player turns over any other tile, he places it on the next empty space on the 
auction track, ending his turn. 
When playing with 3 players, the first two spaces on the Ra track are not used; when 
playing with 4 players, the first space is not used. 
 
Play God tiles 
If a player has one or more God tiles in his display area, he may play them to take 
tiles from the auction track. A player may play one or more God tiles on a turn, taking 
one tile from the auction track for each God tile played. He returns the God tiles to the 
box face down and places the tile taken from the auction track in his display area. A 
player may not take a God tile from the auction track or a Ra tile from the Ra track. If 
gaps in the auction track result from taking tiles, these are filled by tiles turned over in 
later turns. 
 
Invoke Ra 
The player says, "Ra", and places the Ra figure in his display area. This begins an 
auction (see below). 
 

Auction 
The player whose action caused the auction by turning over a Ra tile or invoking Ra is 
the Ra player for this auction. He places the Ra figure in his display area to indicate 
this. The auction begins with the player to the left of the the Ra player and continues 
clockwise around the table, ending with the Ra player. The players are bidding for the 
tiles in the auction track. The winner will also receive the sun in the sun space on the 
board. If there are no tiles in the auction track, the winner will get only the sun. 
Each player, in turn, may bid one of their face up suns by placing it on the edge of the 
board. Bids subsequent to the first must be greater than the previous bid. A player 
may pass, choosing not to bid. However, for an auction held when a player voluntarily 
invokes Ra, the Ra player must bid if all other players pass. When a player 
involuntarily invokes Ra because the auction track is full and he does not choose to 
play a God tile, he may pass even if all others pass. In this case, all tiles on the auction 
track are returned face down to the box. When an auction is held due to a Ra tile 
being turned over, all players may pass, including the Ra player, and the tiles on the 
auction track remain. 
The player with the highest bid, takes all tiles on the auction track (if there are any) 
and places them face up in his display area. He also takes the sun from the centre of 
the board and places it face down in his display area. Face down suns cannot be used 
for the remainder of this epoch, but will be turned face up at the beginning of the next 
epoch. The player then places the sun he bid face up on the sun space in the middle of 
the board. The other bidders, if any, return their suns to their display areas face up. 
After an auction, play continues with the player to the left of the Ra player regardless 
of the outcome of the auction. 
Disasters 
When one or more disaster tiles are included in the tiles a player takes from the 
auction track after winning an auction, he may lose other tiles from his display area. 
First, he places all other tiles taken in the auction into his display area. Then he must 
"fulfil" the disasters by discarding two tiles from the category that matches the 
disaster. If the player only has a single tile of the indicated category, he loses only this 
single tile. If he has no tiles of the indicated category, he loses no tiles due to that 
disaster. A player must fulfil all disasters he takes. 
A player may choose which tiles of the indicated category to discard, except for 
drought. With drought, the player must first discard flood tiles (up to 2 per drought) if 
he has any and then Nile tiles to bring the total to 2 per drought. The chosen tiles are 
removed from the game along with the disaster tiles. 
 

Funeral 
 
Lose up to two Pharaohs 
Drought 
 
Lose up to two floods then Niles 
Unrest 
 
Lose up to two Civilization tile (free choice) 
Earthquake 
 
Lose up to two Monuments (free choice) 
 
The Epochs 
As a player with no face up suns in his display area (i.e. he has used all his suns) may 
take no more turns in the epoch, there are decreasingly fewer players to compete for 
the tiles. When the last player with face up suns uses his last sun and completes his 
turn, the epoch ends. All tiles on the Ra track are placed face down in the box; the sun 
in the middle of the board remains for the next epoch. 
In addition, the epoch ends immediately, when the Ra track is full. In this case, there 
is no auction (!) and all tiles are removed from both the Ra track and the auction track 
and placed face down in the box. Thus, only the face up sun remains on the game 
board. Unused face up suns in a player's display area remain face up for the next 
epoch. 
At the end of an epoch, the tiles in the players' display areas are scored (see below). 
After scoring, all face down suns are turned face up. The players will begin each 
epoch with the same number of suns. However, the players will likely have different 
valued suns than they did at the beginning of the game. The player with the highest 
numbered sun begins the next epoch. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SCORING 
At the end of each of the three epochs, the players receive fame for their efforts in the 
form of tablets. After a player's total fame has been calculated, he receives (or loses) 
tablets equal to the total. The players keep their tablets face down in their display 
areas. If a player loses more points of fame than he has, he loses all he has and takes 0 
points into the next epoch; negative totals are not tracked. 
Gods 
Each God tile in the display area earns 2 points of fame for the player and is returned 
face down to the box. 
Pharaohs 
After each epoch, the player with the most Pharaoh tiles receives 5 points of fame and 
the player with the fewest loses 2 points. If two or more players tie for most or fewest, 
each gains the 5 points or loses the 2 points. If all players have the same number of 
Pharaoh tiles, no points are awarded or lost. The Pharaoh tiles remain in the players' 
display areas for the next epoch. 
Example: The players Anna, Bob, Cathy, and Don have 3, 2, 2 and 3 Pharaohs. Anna 
and Don earn 5 fame points each; Bob and Cathy each lose 2 points. 
Nile and floods 
After each epoch, each player receives one fame point for each flood and Nile tile in 
his display area. However, he only receives these points if he has at least one flood 
tile. Players without flood tiles do not score points for their Nile tiles. 
After scoring, all flood tiles are returned face down to the box. The Nile tiles, 
however, remain in the players' display areas for the next epoch. 
Gold 
After each epoch, each player receives 3 fame points for each gold tile in his display 
area. After scoring, the gold tiles are returned face down to the box. 
Civilization 
After each epoch, players with no civilization tiles in their display areas lose 5 fame 
points. If a player has three different civilization tiles, he earns 5 fame points, for four 
different tiles he earns 10 points and for all five different tiles he earns 15 points. 
After scoring, all civilization tiles are returned face down to the box. 
Example: Anna has 3 astronomy, 2 agriculture and 2 writing tiles. She receives 5 
points, since she has three different civilization tiles. For one each of astronomy, 
agriculture and writing she would have received the same. Extra tiles of the same 
civilization tile do not earn extra points. 

Monuments 
Monuments are scored only after the third epoch. They remain in the players' display 
areas throughout the game. Players receive 1 fame point for each different monument 
for up to 6 different monuments, 10 points for having 7 different monuments, and 15 
points for having all 8 different monuments. In addition, a player receives a bonus of 
5 points for each group of three identical monuments, 10 points for each group of 
four, and 15 points for each group of five. 
Example: Anna has 4 pyramids, 3 temples, 2 fortresses and 1 sphinx. After the third 
epoch she receives 19 points (4 for four different monuments, 10 for four pyramids 
and 5 for three temples). Thus, she receives points for all her monuments except the 
second fortress. 
 
Suns 
Like monuments, the suns are scored only after the third epoch. Each player sums the 
numbers on all his suns (both face up and face down). The player with the highest 
total receives 5 fame points and the player with lowest total loses 5 fame points. If 
two or more players tie for most or fewest, each gains or loses 5 points each. If all 
players have the same total, no points are awarded or lost. 
Example: The players Anna, Bob, Cathy, and Don sum their suns and calculate their 
sums as: 17, 25, 21 and 17. Bob receives 5 points and Anna and Don each lose 5 
points. Cathy neither gains nor loses points. 
 
 
GAME END 
When the scoring after the third epoch is complete, the game ends. Each player adds 
all points of fame on his tablets. The player with the highest result wins. If two or 
more players tie with the highest total, the player, among those tied for highest total, 
with the highest numbered sun is the winner.