TOM LEHMANN
Explore, Settle, Develop, Trade, Consume, or Produce? Which do you need the most? 
Which of Earth’s former colonies will be most successful at settling the galaxy, now that 
JumpDrive exists? Who will discover the secrets of the mysteriously vanished Alien Overlords? 
Your goal: to build the most prosperous and powerful space empire! 
In Race for the Galaxy, players build galactic civilizations by game cards that represent worlds 
or technical and social developments. 
Each round consists of one or more of five possible phases. In each round, each player secretly 
and simultaneously chooses one of seven different action cards and then reveals it. Only the 
selected phases occur. For these phases, every player performs the phase’s action, while the 
selecting player(s) also get a bonus for that phase.
For example, if at least one player chooses the Develop action, then the Develop phase will 
occur; otherwise it is skipped. In it, each player may simultaneously select a development from his 
hand of cards to build. After revealing the cards, each player adds his development to his tableau 
of cards on the table and then discards cards from his hand equal to its cost. Each player who 
chose Develop discards one card fewer as his bonus.
Explore allows a player to draw cards and select which of them to add to his hand. Settle allows 
a player to place a world in his tableau. Some worlds produce goods, represented by face down 
cards, when Produce is selected. These goods can be discarded for victory points or sold to add 
cards to the player’s hand by selecting Consume. With cards, players can settle new worlds and 
build more developments, gaining both victory points and card powers that provide advantages in 
certain phases.
The player who best manages his cards, phase and bonus selections, and card powers to build the 
greatest space empire, wins. 
The winner is the player with the most victory points.
Some cards in the three decks have been presorted for your very first 
game (see Setup). Unpack the card decks carefully.
	 	
5	 start world cards (numbered “0” to “4” in red or blue squares 
	 	
	 in their upper left and lower right corners)
 		 109	 game cards (like start worlds, these have the title on back)
	 	
	 - 59 worlds (with symbols)
	 	
	 - 50 developments (with symbols)
	 	
4	 sets of 7 player action cards (used to select phases and bonuses 
	 	
	 each round; these have no title on their brightly colored backs)
	 	
8	 duplicate action cards for experienced 2-player games 
	 	
	 (marked )
 		
4	 summary sheets
 		 28	 Victory Point (VP) chips: 18 @ 1, 6 @ 5, and 4 @ 10
Carefully remove the VP chips from their frame before your first game.
Players simultaneously choose which 
game phases will occur. Game phases 
that nobody chooses do not occur. 
Each player receives a bonus in the 
phase that they chose.
Cards are used in three ways: as 
developments or worlds to be placed; 
as money; or as goods to be consumed 
or sold.
Players explore for useful cards, 
build developments, settle worlds, 
and produce goods. Goods can be 
consumed for victory points or sold for 
The player with the most victory points 
wins!
OVERVIEW
CONTENTS
a world
sample game cards 
(front)
a development

Place 12 victory point (VP) chips per player in 1 and 5 VP chips nearby. Set aside the 10 VP 
chips (and any left over chips) for use only during the final round of play.
Each player takes a set of seven different action cards.
Find and shuffle the five start worlds. Deal one world face up to each player. These form 
each player’s initial card tableau.
	
Your first game: instead, for two players, use start worlds 1 and 2; for 
	
three, use start worlds 1-3; and, for four, use start worlds 1-4.
Shuffle the unused start worlds together with the game cards. Deal six face down cards to each 
player. Each player then examines these cards and discards two cards face down to the discard 
pile. The remaining game cards form the initial card supply.
	
Your first game: instead, each player uses the four numbered game cards 
	
matching his start world’s number as his initial (preset) hand. After finding 
	
these preset hand cards, shuffle all the remaining game cards, including 
	
any left over start worlds and preset hand cards, together.
 
	
The start worlds, preset hands, and action card sets for your very first 
	
game have already been presorted by the printer.
If Alpha Centauri is in play, place a card from the card supply face down on top of it (as its 
starting windfall good).
Start worlds have numbered red 
and blue boxes in their upper 
left and lower right corners 
(these colors are used in a future 
expansion). Preset hand cards 
have numbers without boxes.
Set out 12 VPs per player in 1 and 
5 VP chips.
Set aside the 10 VP chips for later 
use.
Give each player a set of seven 
action cards and a random start 
Shuffle the unused start worlds 
and game cards. Each player gets 
6 cards and discards 2 of them.
The remaining cards form the card 
supply.
Cards in the card supply and the 
discard pile are both face down. 
To tell them apart, keep the card 
supply neat and the discard pile a 
bit “messy”.
Use 12 VPs per player.
A player’s developments and 
worlds are placed in a card 
tableau.
SETUP
Each player’s card tableau is in front of him. It is one or more rows of face up cards: 
developments and worlds. Initially, it contains only the player’s start world.
start worlds
preset cards
card supply
discard pile
(face down and “messy”)
VP chips
3 players: remove 12
2 players: remove 24 
(set aside the 10 VP chips)
card tableau
card 
tableau
card tableau
(Alpha Centauri)
Alpha Centauri´s 
starting Windfall good
set of seven diffe-
rent action cards

A game is played over several rounds (typically 7 to 11). At the start of a round, each player 
simultaneously and secretly chooses one action card, placing it face down in front of himself. 
Once all players have done so, they turn these action cards face up. Then, the players perform 
the selected phases in order (I: Explore; II: Develop; III: Settle; IV: Consume; V: Produce), omitting 
every phase not chosen by at least one player.
Each phase has an action, which is performed by all players. In addition, the players who chose 
that phase get a bonus.
	 Important: if more than one player chooses the same phase, its action 
	 is still only performed once (with all the players who selected that phase 
	 receiving a bonus).
	 The bonus for an action either modifies it (such as reducing its cost 
	 or doubling the VPs gained) or is in addition to it (such as a card draw 
	 afterwards or the opportunity to sell a good).
	 Players may find it useful to turn over the action card(s) for each 
	 phase as it is completed before performing the next one.
	 New players may find it useful to place the selected action cards in 
	 the center in numerical order. As players become more familiar with 
	 the phase order, this won’t be necessary.
After all phases chosen that round have been performed, each player must discard down to ten 
(game) cards in his hand and then reclaims the action card that he or she played that round.
Successive rounds are performed in the same manner until an end-of-game condition is met (see 
Game End below).
Game cards have three uses: as a development or world to be placed in a player’s tableau; as 
one wealth to discard from one’s hand face down when paying to place a development or world; 
or as a good placed face down on a world either upon it being settled or during production.
Each round, all players secretly 
choose and then reveal an action 
card.
Only phases selected by players are 
performed.
Perform the selected phases in 
numerical order:
	 I	 Explore
	 II	 Develop
	 III	 Settle
	 IV	 Consume
	 V	 Produce 
A phase has an action, performed by 
all players, and a bonus, performed 
only by the players who chose that 
action card.
At the end of a round, players must 
discard down to a hand limit of 10 
Game cards have three uses, as:
 	•	developments or worlds
 	•	one wealth (money) to spend
 	•	one good (on a world)
Action: draw 2 cards; keep 1, discard 
the other.
All explore draws are done before 
any player discards.
Bonus (based on the action card 
chosen): draw 5 more cards or draw 
1 more card and keep 1 more card.
Example: with this Explore power, a 
player (with no bonus) would draw 
four cards and keep two of them.
PLAYING THE GAME
Action: each player draws two cards and then simultaneously selects which one of them to add 
to his hand, discarding the other card face down in the center discard area.
	 All cards drawn are dealt out before any cards are discarded.
There are two possible Explore bonuses, depending on which Explore action card was chosen 
by a player. 
A player who chose Explore: +5 draws five more cards to select from 
before making his choice. Such a player explores by drawing 7 cards and 
choosing 1 of them to add to his hand. 
A player who chose Explore: +1,+1 draws one more card to select from 
and keeps another card. Such a player explores by drawing 3 cards and 
choosing 2 of them to add to his hand.
	 Thus, depending on the bonus chosen with the Explore action, a player 
	 can either have more cards to select from or gain an extra card to keep.
	 The powers of various cards can alter these rules if a player has them in 
	 his tableau, possibly providing extra card draws or allowing a player to 
	 keep additional cards.
I: EXPLORE

Action: each player places a development card from his hand face down, or no card if a player 
doesn’t intend to place a development. Once all players have done so, they simultaneously turn 
them face up and then pay for them. 
	
If desired, players can put their intended developments (if any) under their 
	
action card, revealing them when everyone is ready.
Each development has a symbol containing its cost, ranging from 1–6. To pay for a 
development, a player discards cards equal to this number face down from his hand.
Players who chose Develop, as the bonus, discard one card fewer than the development’s cost. 
If, due to special powers, a player is already discarding no cards, no bonus is received.
A player may not build a given development if another copy of it is currently in his tableau.
Next to a development’s diamond is its victory point (VP) value. It adds to the player’s final victory 
point total at the end of the game.
6-cost developments have listed as their victory point values. These are worth a variable 
number of victory points at the end of the game, as indicated on these cards.
 
	
The powers of various cards can alter these rules if a player has them in his 
	
tableau before the development phase begins.
Action: place and pay for a 
development.
To indicate no development, some 
players“knock” on the table, others 
put a world instead face down and 
flip it over, others put a card down 
but pick it up saying “no” when all 
are ready. Agree on a convention.
Bonus: discard one fewer card when 
paying for a development.
A player may have only one of any 
given development in their tableau.
Developments are worth victory points.
Developments, and most worlds, grant 
powers.
Power icons appear on the left side of 
cards, arranged in I to V phase order, 
allowing players to easily scan their 
tableaus for them during a phase.
The chromosome icon , 
UPLIFT , IMPERIUM , and 
TERRAFORMING are for use in future 
expansion sets.
Powers first take effect in the phase 
after their card is placed.
Powers must be applied if possible, 
unless the card text indicates 
otherwise.
II: DEVELOP
Every development, and most worlds, list one or more powers. Standard powers are 
depicted by icons with no text description (see the reference sheet). Special powers have 
icons, highlighted phases, and text descriptions at the bottom of the card which begin with the 
corresponding phase number.
All powers modify rules and are cumulative. A power modifies only the rules listed in its 
description; all other rules still apply.
“Draw” — in all phases except Explore — means draw a card and add it to your hand. In Explore, 
it means draw a card and add it to the cards you then select from, as in the Explore rules.
	
If, due to powers, a cost is reduced below 0, it becomes 0. A player does 
	
not receive cards as a “refund” if this occurs.
A power does not take effect in the phase in which its card is placed; it can begin to take effect as 
soon as the next phase.
Thus, the Public Works power to draw one card after its owner builds a development does not 
apply to Public Works itself.
	
Unless a power’s description uses the word “may”, a power must be used, 
	
if possible, in the phase to which it applies (though a player may freely 
	
choose the order in which to invoke powers, as discussed further under 
	
Consume).
An optional power (such as a Colony Ship) must be used if it is needed to place a development 
or world which a player has selected and then revealed.
	
Powers are resolved sequentially (even though their effects can be 
	
cumulative). A player cannot “interrupt” one power with another.
CARD POWERS
standard 
power
special 
power
cost
VPs

Action: each player places a world card from his hand face down, or no card if a player doesn’t 
intend to place a world. Once all players have done so, they simultaneously turn them face up 
and then pay for (or conquer) them. 
Many worlds contain a black number, ranging from 0-6, in a black circle; this is the world’s cost. 
To pay for such worlds, the player discards cards face down from his hand equal to this number.
Players who chose Settle, as the bonus, draw one card after placing and paying for (or 
conquering) a world.
Beside a world’s circle is its victory point value. This adds to the player’s final victory point total at 
the end of the game.
	 	 The powers of various cards can alter the settle rules if a player has them in 
	 	 his tableau before the settle phase begins.
Windfalls: some worlds have a colored “halo” around their circle, showing that they are 
windfall worlds and that a good is to be put on them when they are first settled. To do so, as 
part of placing the world in a player’s tableau, he takes a card face down — without looking at it 
— from the card supply and puts it on top of the world’s lower right portion (to avoid hiding the 
world’s VPs and powers). This card represents a good of the kind indicated by the color of the 
world’s halo.
There are four kinds of goods in the game:
	 •	 Alien technology , artifacts left by the vanished Alien Overlords.
	 •	 Genes , genetic material used in biological research.
	 •	 Rare elements , transuranic elements powering JumpDrive.
	 •	 Novelty goods , such as artwork and entertainment. 
Military Conquest: some worlds have red circles and, within them, a red outlined number, 
ranging from 1–7; this is the world’s defense. These worlds cannot be placed by payment, but 
instead must be conquered. To conquer a world, a player’s total Military must equal or exceed 
the world’s defense. Then, the player simply places it — and its windfall good, if it has a halo 
— without paying for it (and then draws a bonus card if that player chose Settle).
Military is granted by powers of various start worlds, developments, or worlds, and lasts until the 
end of the settle phase.
	 	 Some developments and worlds, such as the Empath World, subtract from 
	 	 a player’s total Military.
	 	 New Military Tactics may be discarded from a player’s tableau for +3 
	 	 Military until the end of that settle phase.
A Contact Specialist enables a player to place and pay for a military world (except an Alien 
military world), at a cost equal to one less than the world’s defense.
Important: this cost is not reduced by a player’s Military (Military and 
payments never combine).
Cost discounts from Replicant Robots, Mining Robots, etc. do combine 
with a Contact Specialist to reduce the cost of placing a military world. 
Similarly, a Colony Ship allows a Contact Specialist to place a (non-Alien) 
military world at no cost.
Thus, there are two completely separate ways to place 
military worlds.
Action: place and pay for a world, 
receiving any windfall as indicated.
Bonus: draw a card after placing a 
Worlds are worth victory points.
A windfall is received once, when a 
world is first placed.
Windfall goods 
are placed on top 
of worlds with 
colored halos around their costs.
Military worlds (with red circles) 
must be conquered to be placed.
To conquer a military world, the 
player’s Military must equal or 
exceed its defense. He then places 
the world for no cost.
A Contact Specialist allows a player 
to place a military world by paying 
for it, instead of conquering it.
III: SETTLE
cost
VPs
defense
sample military powers

Action: all players must use their consume powers to discard goods for victory point chips and/or 
card draws.
	
Some powers consume several goods. Others consume goods of 
	
a specific kind. Some, such as Deficit Spending, consume cards, 
	
not goods, discarded from a player’s hand. A few powers, such as 
	
New Economy, don’t involve discarding anything; they simply take 
	
effect during a Consume phase.
Goods are discarded face down (without examining them). Each good being discarded applies to 
only one consume power. A good may or may not be on the world consuming it.
Consumption is mandatory. However, consume powers can be invoked in any desired order, even 
if this results in some unconsumed goods left over that could have been consumed with a different 
order (due to their kinds not matching the player’s remaining unused consume powers).
Each consume power can be used only once in a consume phase. Some powers allow multiple 
goods, “up to” some number, to be discarded, with each good producing an effect. Such powers 
must be fully used, if possible, when invoked.
	
Thus, a player with a tableau containing three novelty goods, New 
	
Vinland, and Free Trade Association, cannot consume two goods 
	
using FTA’s power (to consume up to 3 novelty goods for 1 VP 
	
and a card apiece) and then, based on the cards received, decide 
	
to consume the third novelty good using New Vinland’s power (to 
	
consume a good for two cards). The third novelty good must now 
	
be consumed by FTA.
	
(These powers could have been invoked in the reverse order, but 
	
this choice must be made before invoking FTA’s power — once 
	
a power is invoked, its resolution cannot be interrupted by another 
	
power.)
There are two possible Consume bonuses, depending on which Consume action card was 
chosen by a player.
$: Trade: players who chose Consume: Trade must sell one good (before applying their 
consume powers), by discarding it and drawing a number of cards that depends on the kind of 
good sold: Alien technology: 5 cards; Genes: 4 cards; Rare elements: 3 cards; or Novelty: 2 
	
Only players who chose Consume: Trade can sell a good.
Players choosing Consume: Trade also apply all relevant Trade special powers (listed next to $) 
to this sale (typically, to draw extra cards).
	
Players who chose Consume: 2x VPs double the number of victory 
	
point chips — but not any other effects — that their consume 
	
powers provide.
Exception: VPs for discarding cards from your hand (from powers such as Deficit Spending or 
Merchant World) are not doubled by this bonus.
Action: use consume powers if 
possible, typically to discard goods 
for victory point chips.
sample consume powers
Consume powers must be used 
fully, if possible, but may be used 
in any order.
Bonus (based on the action card 
chosen): sell 1 good first or receive 
double VP chips.
Important: Trade is not a 
separate phase; it occurs before 
a Consume phase for only those 
who chose it.
	
sample trade powers
IV: CONSUME
consumption 
(2 goods for 3 VPs)
Deficit 
Spending
Free Trade 
Association
New 
Vinland

Action: place a good on each production world (worlds with colored, solid circles) without a 
good, by taking a card face down — without looking at it — from the card supply and putting it on 
top of the world’s lower right portion (to avoid hiding the world’s VPs and powers). This good is of 
the kind indicated by the color of the world’s solid circle.
	
No world can have more than one good. Place a good on the lower right 
	
portion of a world to avoid hiding the world’s VPs or powers. Some 
	
worlds, such as Gem World, provide a card draw as part of producing a 
	
good. If a good is already present, then no cards are drawn.
Players who chose Produce, as the bonus, produce a good (if possible) on one of their windfall 
worlds that does not already have a good.
	
Some cards, such as Genetics Lab, can also produce goods on windfall 
	
worlds (without goods). 
	
Others, such as the Pan-Galactic League, 
	
provide a card draw for each world of a 
	
specific kind in a player’s tableau (such as 
	
Genes worlds, with either a green halo or a 
	
green solid circle).
Action: place a good on each world 
without a good that produces one.
Place produced 
goods on production worlds 
(with colored, solid circles).
Bonus: produce a windfall.
Icons for produce powers that 
provide cards or windfalls are 
listed twice, once in the icon bar 
and once on the top, right corner of 
each card, as an aid when dealing 
out production.
Discard down to 10 cards at the end 
of each round.
Discards are face down and 
“messy”.
The game ends after:
	 •	a player ends a round with 12 
	 	or more cards in tableau, or 
	 •	the VPs chips run out.
Finish the final round. Use the 10 VP 
chips if necessary.
Each player totals:
	 •	tableau card VPs
	 •	VP chips
	 •	VPs for developments
The player with the most VPs wins!
After a game, separate the start 
worlds by fanning the deck, 
looking for boxed numbers in the 
right-hand corners.
V: PRODUCE
After all chosen phases are done, players must discard down to 10 (game) cards before starting 
the next round.
All discards are face down. Keep the discard pile a bit “messy” so that it is not confused with the 
card supply.
When the card supply is exhausted, immediately reshuffle the discards to form a new card supply.
All players’ VP chips and the number of game cards they have in their hands are open for 
examination. Make change among VP chips as needed.
ROUND END, CARDS, AND CHIPS
The game ends at the end of the round (including discarding) in which:
	 •	 a player has 12 or more cards in his card tableau, or 
	 	 (A player can end with more than 12 cards in his card tableau 
	 	 by placing both a development and a world in the final round.)
	 •	 the last victory point chip is given out.
If victory point chips run out, add the 10 VP chips and make change so that all victory points earned 
in the final consume phase can be taken.
Total each player’s development and world VPs, VP chips, and any end of game VPs for 6-cost 
developments.
The player with the highest total is the winner!
 If two or more players tie, the player among them with the highest total 
 number of cards in hand (after discarding) and goods on worlds wins.
 If there is still a tie, then all the tied players win.
GAME END

Mostly, play can and should be performed simultaneously.
However, there are a few cases where player order can matter, such as:
	 •	 when there are only a few cards left in the card supply, or
	 •	 when the VP chips might run out in a Consume phase, or
	 •	 when players are settling near the end of the game.
	 	 Near the end of the game, if several players have New Military Tactics or 
	 	 Colony Ships, a player may wish to know whether another player is using 
	 	 (and discarding) one of these cards or placing a twelfth card in his tableau 
	 	 (thus ending the game that round), before deciding whether to use one of 
	 	 these cards himself.
In this and similar cases, perform the phase in clockwise order, starting with the player who has the 
lowest numbered (original) start world.
Resolve any timing issues 
clockwise from the player with the 
lowest numbered (original) start 
2 player game: use all nine action 
cards, choosing two action cards at 
the start of each round.
TIMING
Initially, two players should just play the standard rules. Once you’re familiar with the game, play 
with the following changes:
	 •	 Each player uses a full set of nine action cards and chooses two 
	 	 of them at the start of each round.
	 •	 A player selecting both Explore bonuses draws eight cards and keeps 
	 	 two of them (plus the effects of any applicable powers).
	 •	 If a player chooses either two Develop or two Settle actions, then 
	 	 two complete, sequential phases of that type occur (with this player 
	 	 receiving a bonus in each of them). If his opponent also chose one 
	 	 of these same actions, then his opponent receives a bonus only for 
	 	 the first of these two phases. Powers placed in the first such 
	 	 phase can be used in the second one.
	 •	 A player who selects both Consume bonuses must sell one good 
	 	 before consuming other goods for double VPs.
2 PLAYER GAME (for experienced players)
Design, development, and rules: Tom Lehmann
Story background inspired by: Frederik Pohl and David Brin
Original graphics and development assistance: Wei-Hwa Huang
Graphics: Mirko Suzuki
Illustrations: Martin Hoffmann and Claus Stephan
Playtesting and Advice
Corin Anderson, Brian Bankler, Eric Brosius, Mark Delano, David des Jardins, 
Chris Esko, Barry Eynon, Jeff Goldsmith, Dave Helmbold, Jay Heyman, Beth 
Howard, Bryan Howard, Joe Huber, Chris Lopez, Larry Rosenberg, Ron 
Sapolsky, Steve Thomas, Jay Tummelson, Lou Wainwright, Don Woods, and 
many, many others. Thank you all!
Special Thanks (way beyond the call of duty): Wei-Hwa Huang
Special thanks are also due to: Rob Watkins, who assisted me in the mid–90s 
on an unpublished CCG, Duel for the Stars, from which much of this is 
drawn; Richard Borg, for a key idea; Stefan Brück, who allowed Richard and 
me to work on a prototype Puerto Rico card game; and Andreas Seyfarth, 
without whom we wouldn’t have been inspired to do so.
CREDITS

I: EXPLORE
CARD POWERS (by phase)
Draw 1 or 2 more cards to select 
from.
These powers do not alter 
the number of cards that a 
player keeps. 
Draw Extra
Keep Extra
Draw and Keep Extra
Keep 1 more card.
Draw 2 more cards 
to select from; 
keep 1 more card.
II: DEVELOP
Draw 1 card at the start of the 
Develop phase.
Reduce Cost
Draw After
Reduce the cost to 
place a development 
( ) by 1 or 2 cards.
Draw 1 card after placing a 
development ( ).
Powers cannot reduce costs below 0 nor take effect during the phase in which they are placed.
Powers cannot reduce costs below 0 nor take effect during the phase in which they are placed.
Cost reductions can apply when using a “Pay for Military” power to settle a military world ( ).
III: SETTLE
–2 cost to place a 
non-military world ( ).
Reduce Cost
Specific Reduce Cost
Reduce Cost to 0
–1 cost to place a non-military 
Rare elements production or 
windfall world ( ).
	
The player may discard 
	
this card from his tableau to 
	
reduce the cost of placing a 
non-military world ( ) to 0. This cannot be 
used to place an Alien production or windfall 
world ( ). It can place the 
Alien Rosetta Stone World.
Contributes Military towards con-
quering a military world ( ).
The –1 is not optional. 
This power reduces the 
player’s Military, making 
worlds harder to conquer.
Military
Specific Military
Specific Reduce Cost / Military 
+4 Military towards conquering a 
Rebel military world ( ).
Reduce the cost of 
placing a non-military 
world of the indicated kind 
( ), 
or add to the player’s Military 
when conquering a military 
world of that kind.
The player may 
discard this card from 
his tableau to gain 
+3 Military until the end of 
this Settle phase.
Temporary Military
Pay for Military
Draw After
	
As the action, the 
	
player may place a 
	
military world ( ) 
as a non-military world ( ). The cost is 
the world’s defense -1, with other applicable 
discounts.
This cannot be used to place an Alien 
production or windfall world 
( ). The Contact Specialist also has 
a -1 Military power.
Draw 1 card after placing a 
world ( ).

$: TRADE
Draw 1 or 2 more cards when 
selling a good.
Any Good
Specific Kind of Good
This World´s Good
Draw 1, 2, or 
3 more cards when 
selling a good of the 
indicated kind 
( ).
Draw 1 or 3 more cards when 
selling a good from the world 
( ) with this power (plus 
any other applicable Trade 
powers, possibly due to its 
kind).
IV: CONSUME
Discard 1 good (of 
any kind) 
to gain the 
specified VP chips 
and/or cards.
Any One Good
Fixed Number of Goods
	
Discard 2 goods (of any 
	
kind, possibly the same) 
	
to gain 3 VP chips.
	
Discard exactly 3 goods, 
	
each of a different kind 
	
( ), to 
	
gain 3 VP chips.
	
Discard goods up to 
	
the indicated number 
	
to gain the specified 
	
VP chips and/or cards 
	
for each good discarded. 
	
Once invoked, these powers 
	
must be used to the fullest 
	
extent possible. 
Example: with two remaining goods 
(of the appropriate kind), the player 
must discard both of them after 
invoking one of these powers.
Discarding “up to”
All Goods
For Cards at Trade Prices
	
Discard all goods 
	
(possibly after using 
other consume powers) to gain VP chips 
equal to one less than the number of goods 
discarded.
Example: if the player has 3 goods 
when this power is invoked, he 
discards all of them for 2 VPs.
	
Discard 1 good to gain cards 
	
equal to its Trade price 
	
( Novelty: 2; 
	
 Rare elements: 3; 
	
 Genes: 4; 
	
 Alien: 5). 
Trade Powers do not affect this power.
	
Discard 1 good to gain 
	
cards equal to its Trade price 
	
( Novelty: 2; 
	
 Rare elements: 3; 
	
 Genes: 4; 
	
 Alien: 5), 
plus all applicable Trade powers 
(including its own Trade power).
Draw 1 card.
Draw if Lucky
Discard Cards, not Goods
	
Name a number from 
	
1–7. Turn the top card from 
the card supply face up. If its cost or defense 
matches the number, keep it. Otherwise, 
discard it.
The Gambling World also has a standard 
consume power in addition to this 
one.
	
The player may discard 
	
up to 2 cards from his 
	
hand to gain 1 VP 
	
apiece.
These VPs are not doubled by the 
Consume: 2x bonus.
Black Market 
Trading World
Trade League
Discard the indicated number 
of good(s) of the specified 
kind ( ) to 
gain VP chips and/or cards.
Specific Kind of Good(s)

V: PRODUCE
Produce a good on this world (if 
it does not have a good on it).
Produce Good
Produce Windfall Good
Produce Specific Windfall
The player produces a good on 
one of his windfall worlds ( ) 
without a good on it.
The player produces 
a good on one of his 
windfall worlds of 
the specified kind 
( ) 
without a good on it.
Draw 1 or 2 cards.
Produce Good and Draw
Draw on Produced Windfall
Produce a good on this world 
(if it does not have a good on 
it) and then draw 1 or 2 cards. 
Do not draw any cards if no 
good was produced.
The production reminders 
for these powers show 
only their draw card icons.
	
Draw 1 card after 
	
producing a good on 
	
this world ( ).
The production reminder for this 
power shows a draw card on this 
world icon.
Draw 1 card for each 
good of the specified kind 
( ) that the 
player produced during this 
Produce phase.
Draw for Kind
Draw for Most of a Kind
Draw for Different Kinds
	
At the end of Produce, 
	
draw 2 cards if the player 
produced more Rare elements 
goods ( ) during this phase than 
any other player.
	
Draw 1 card for 
	
each different kind 
of good ( ) that 
the player produced this 
Produce phase.
Distribution (114 game cards):
5	 start worlds: 4 and 1
	•	 22	 other military worlds
	•	 37	 other non-military worlds
 •	 12	 6-cost developments
 •	 38	 other developments: 19x2
23 worlds are military worlds :
6	 defense 1 (1 Rebel)
7	 defense 2 
		
	 (1 Alien, 1 Rebel, 1 start)
3	 defense 3 (2 Rebel)
2	 defense 4 (1 Alien)
2	 defense 5 (1 Alien, 1 Rebel)
2	 defense 6 (1 Alien, 1 Rebel)
1	 defense 7 (1 Rebel) 
		
	 Contact Specialist not allowed 
		
	 for 4 Alien
Draw for Worlds
	
Draw 1 card for each 
	
Genes production or 
windfall world ( ) in the 
player’s tableau.
19 cards provide Military:
7	 2x +1, 3x +2, 2x +3
2	 provide +3 upon discard
6	 4x +1, 1x +2, 1x +3
2	 +1
2	 start worlds: +1; +2
		 Galactic Empire: +4 vs 7 Rebel
		 1 and 1 are +2 vs 4 Alien
		 Alpha Centauri: +1 vs. 3 Rare
5 	cards have –1 Military
91 cards are placed by payment:
 •	 2	 cost 0: 	
and	
 •	 18	 cost 1:	
and 	 6
 •	 23	 cost 2:	
and	 11
 •	 14	 cost 3: 	
and	 10
 •	 13	 cost 4: 	
8 	 and 	 5
 •	 7	 cost 5: 	
2 	 and 	 5
 •	 14	 cost 6:	
12 	 and 	 2
25 worlds are windfall worlds :
 •	 5	 Novelty :	
and 3
 •	 7	 Rare : 5 (1 start) and 2
 •	 7	 Genes : 	
and 5
 •	 6	 Alien : 	
and 3
21 worlds produce a good:
 •	 9	 Novelty :	 8 (1 start) and 1
 •	 6	 Rare : 	
 •	 4	 Genes : 	
	•	 2	 Alien : 	
		 6	 and 2 produce a good at a 
		
	 specific kind of windfall world; 
		 1	 produces one at any world.
33 cards consume one or more goods:
	•	13	 (3 start) and 2
	•	15
2 and 1 consume cards for VPs.
ABOUT THE CARDS

If you have comments, questions, or suggestions, please write to us at:
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 45715, Rio Rancho, NM 87174, USA
E-Mail: RioGames@aol.com
© 2004 - 2007 Tom Lehmann
© 2007 Rio Grande Games
ALIEN TECH INSTITUTE
 
 
other ALIEN card 
Alien technology 
Alien technology 
FREE TRADE ASSOCIATION
Novelty 
Novelty 
CONSUMER MARKETS 
EXPANDING COLONY
TRADE LEAGUE
a Trade power 
world with a 
Trade power
GALACTIC IMPERIUM
Rebel 
military world 
other 
military world 
GALACTIC RENAISSANCE
every three VP chips 
(rounded down) 
 
 
 
RESEARCH 
LABS,
GALACTIC 
TRENDSETTERS, 
ARTIST COLONY
6-cost 
developments 
other 
developments
GALACTIC FEDERATION
GALACTIC SURVEY/SETI
an Explore power 
world with an 
Explore power
other world
MERCHANT GUILD
 
 , , , , 
(not windfall)
MINING LEAGUE
MINING ROBOTS, 
MINING 
CONGLOMERATE
NEW ECONOMY
a Consume power 
world with a 
Consume power
PAN-GALACTIC LEAGUE
 
other military world
CONTACT SPECIALIST
 , Genes world
NEW GALACTIC ORDER
total Military (count 
negative Military 
but do not count 
specialized Military)
For these developments, score end of the game VPs for every card in its owner’s tableau that satisfies one of the conditions listed 
on that development (and for every 3 VPs in chips its owner has in the case of Galactic Renaissance).
Rebel military worlds have a red, shaded 
circle beneath their VPs.
Specialized Military includes not only bonuses 
against Rebel and Alien military worlds, etc. 
but also temporary Military, such as provided 
by New Military Tactics.
Trade powers are not considered 
Consume powers for these 
VP conditions
6-COST DEVELOPMENTS POWERS