game design - shem phillips 
illustration - mihajlo dimitrievski 
graphic design & layouts - shem phillips 
 
copyright 2015 garphill games 
www.garphill.com

71 Townsfolk Cards
4 Ship Cards 
(In 4 Colours)
16 Offering Tiles
components
1 Game Board
12 Score 
Markers 
(In 4 Colours)
7 Black Workers 
11 Grey Workers 
12 White Workers
18 Valkyrie
32 Provisions
2 Averaging Dice
1 Black Bag
32 Silver
18 Gold
18 Iron
26 Livestock
aim of the game
introduction
The aim of Raiders of the North Sea is to impress the Chieftain by having the most Victory Points (VP) at the 
game’s end. Victory Points are gained primarily by raiding Settlements, taking Plunder and making Offerings to 
the Chieftain. How players use their Plunder is also vital to their success. The game ends when 
either 1 Fortress raid remains, all Valkyrie are removed, or all Offerings have been made.
Raiders of the North Sea is set in the central years of the Viking Age. As Viking warriors, players seek to impress 
the Chieftain by raiding unsuspecting settlements. Players will need to assemble a crew, collect provisions and 
journey north to plunder gold, iron and livestock. There is glory to be found in battle, even at the hands of the 
Valkyrie. So gather your warriors, it’s raiding season!
game iconography
Before getting started, players should familiarize themselves with the board, cards and their icons.
When playing for the first time or teaching others, there is one 
simple concept to understand: 
 
Players always start and finish their turn with 1 Worker in hand. 
 
 - Each player starts their turn with 1 Worker. 
 - On their turn they will place their Worker on the board to take an action. 
 - After doing so, they will pick up a different Worker for a second action. 
 - Regardless of which actions they take, this will always be true.
Victory Points (VP)
Military Strength
Valkyrie
Iron
Plunder
Crew Card
Gold
Hand Card
Worker Placement Spot. Some have colour restrictions (shown by the coloured Workers). 
Only those colours shown are permitted. Spots without Workers allow any colour.
Livestock
Offering Tile
Dice to roll 
during a Raid
VP Gained 
 
Required Plunder 
and/or Silver to 
make Offering
Military Strength
Cost to hire (Silver)
Name
Hired 
Crew 
Action
Town 
Hall 
Action
first time players
?

setup
Follow these steps to setup Raiders of the North Sea: 
 
1. Place the game board in the centre of the playing area. 
 
2. Shuffle all 71 Townsfolk Cards into 1 deck and place facedown within reach of all 
 players. This forms the Townsfolk Draw Pile. Allow space for a Discard Pile also. 
 
3. Shuffle all 16 Offering Tiles and stack them facedown to the side of the board. 
 Turn over the top 3 Tiles, placing them faceup to the right of the Long House 
 (the 3 spaces at the bottom right of the board). 
 
4. Place all Valkyrie and Plunder (Gold, Iron and Livestock) into the Black Bag 
 and give them a good mix. Randomly draw and place the required number 
 for each raiding space. (Green icon at the top left of each raiding space). 
 Remove all remaining Valkyrie and Plunder from the bag. These should be 
 placed alongside the board to form the Main Supply. 
 
 Note: Raiding spaces are the transparent rectangular boxes over 
 each Settlement (Harbours, Outposts, Monasteries and Fortresses). 
 
5. Place all White and Grey Workers on their required raiding spaces 
 (Worker icon at top right of each raiding space). These are collected 
 during raids. Place 3 Black Workers in the Village. These should be 
 on the Gate House, Town Hall and Treasury (buildings with a blue 
 card icon ). 
 
6. Place all Silver and Provisions to the side of the board in the 
 Main Supply. The dice can be placed here also. 
 
7. Each player receives 2 Silver, 1 Black Worker, and 1 Ship Card 
 in their chosen colour (with the 50 VP side facedown). 
 
8. Place 1 Score Marker of each player’s colour on the 3 ‘0’ spaces around the board’s edge. 
 These track each players Armour , Valkyrie and Victory Points .
	
	
	
9. Along with the Black Bag, place any unrequired Black Workers, Player Cards and 
 Score Markers, back into the box. 
 
	
	
	
	
10. Deal 5 cards from the Townsfolk Draw Pile to each player. Before beginning, 
	
	
	
	
 each player must choose 3 of the 5 cards to keep in their hand. All other cards 
	
	
	
	
 are placed facedown at the bottom of the Townsfolk Draw Pile. 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
11. Each player rolls both dice to determine a starting player. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The highest roller starts the game. 
 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The Main Supply 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The Main Supply is limited to its current resources 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 (Silver, Provisions and Plunder). Players can only 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 claim what resources are available at the time. 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The Offering Tile Stack 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Offering Tiles are shuffled and kept facedown. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Should this stack ever run out, the game is over. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Making Offerings to the Chieftain is a vital 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 part of scoring Victory Points. To do so, players 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 need to collect varying sets of Plunder and 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Silver, as shown on each Offering Tile. 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
 Player Supplies 
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
 Players are limited to holding no more than 8 Silver, 
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
 8 Provisions, and 8 cards in their hand at the end of 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 their turn. However, they may collect more than this 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 during their turn. There is no limit to how much 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Plunder players may hold.
 
The Townsfolk Draw Pile 
Should this ever run out, 
players must shuffle the 
Discard Pile to form a new 
Townsfolk Draw Pile. 

playing the game
Proceeding clockwise from the starting player, each player takes their turn in 
full. On their turn, players may choose to Work or Raid. Players continue to 
take turns until 1 of the 3 end-game conditions have been met (See page 10). 
Regardless of their choice, each turn will always follow the same pattern: 
 
 1. Place Worker and resolve its action 
 2. Pick up a different Worker and resolve its action
Working
Once players have hired enough Crew and collected Provisions, they may choose to raid on their turn. To raid 
a Settlement (Harbour, Outpost, Monastery or Fortress), players need to meet 3 requirements. They must have: 
 
 1. A large enough Crew. 
 
 2. Enough Provisions (and Gold for Monasteries/Fortresses). 
 
 3. The required Worker colour. 
 
Each Settlement has a different set of requirements. 
For example, this Monastery requires a minimum of 3 hired Crew, 
3 Provisions, 1 Gold and either a Grey or White Worker. 
 
Once a player decides to raid a Settlement, they must follow these steps: 
Ignore step 3 when raiding Harbours (these always score 1 Victory Point). 
 
 1. Place their Worker on 1 of the Settlement’s Worker Spots (it will remain there for the rest of the game). 
 2. Pay required Provisions and Gold to the supply. 
 3. Roll the required dice and add up their total Military Strength to determine any Victory Points gained. 
 4. Receive additional Victory Points from Hired Crew. 
 5. Pick up their new Worker and Plunder, adding it to their supply. 
 6. Resolve any Valkyrie actions. 
 Note: Steps 3-6 will be explained over pages 8-9 (Scoring Raids). 
 
After picking up their new Worker, along with their Plunder and resolving any Valkyrie actions, their turn is 
over. Play then continues with the next player, in a clockwise fashion. As before, the current player can either 
Work or Raid. 
 
For example, a player decided to place their Grey Worker in the Monastery shown above. They first make sure 
they have at least 3 Crew Members. As they do, they pay the required 3 Provisions and 1 Gold to the Main 
Supply. They then roll 2 dice and add up their Military Strength to determine any Victory Points gained. After 
scoring, they take their Plunder and new Worker, adding them to their supply.
Raiding
Having a good Crew and enough provisions are vital to successful raiding. 
So before making any raids, players will need to do some work to prepare their Crew and collect supplies. 
This is all done in the Village, at the bottom of the board. 
 
There are 8 different buildings, with various actions (see page 12 for full details). At the start of the game, there 
are Workers in the Gate House, Town Hall and Treasury. These buildings are currently blocked for placing a 
Worker. On their turn, players place their Worker in an available building. It is important to note that there are 3 
different Worker colours. In some cases, the Worker’s colour alters the building’s action. 
 
The starting player could place their Worker in either the Mill (to gain 1 Provision), Barracks (to hire 1 Crew 
Member), or Silversmith (to gain 3 Silver). The Armoury and Long House require a Grey or White Worker. 
After placing their Worker, and resolving the building’s action, they then pick up a Worker from a different 
building and resolve its action also. Players hold onto the Worker they picked up, as they will place it on their 
next turn. 
For example, the starting player decides to place their Worker in the Mill to gain 1 Provision. This is taken from 
the Main Supply, and added to their own. They then decide to pick up the Worker from the Gate House. They 
draw 2 new cards from the Townsfolk Draw Pile and add them to their hand. 
 
 - Players cannot pick up the same Worker they just placed. 
 - Players may choose to place or pick up a Worker without taking the building’s action. 
 - Players can only take each building’s action once on their turn (with exception of the Sage/Long House). 
 
After picking up their new Worker and resolving any action, their turn is over. Play then continues with the next 
player, in a clockwise fashion. As before, the current player can either Work or Raid.

scoring raids
There are 3 different ways to score Victory Points during a raid: 
 
 1. Military Strength 
 2. Hired Crew 
 3. Plunder and Valkyrie
1. Military Strength
Each Settlement (except Harbours), offer 2 or 3 levels of Victory Points. 
These are all paired with a set level of Military Strength. 
 
For example, the Monastery shown to the right will reward players 4 Victory Points if they raid with at least 
12 Military Strength. Should they have 20 or more Military Strength, they will instead gain 6 Victory Points. 
Likewise, if they raid with less than 12, they will gain no Victory Points for their Military Strength. 
 
When raiding, players will roll 1 or 2 dice, as indicated by the Settlement (not applicable for Harbours). 
After doing so, they add up their total Military Strength to determine any Victory Points gained. Each player’s 
Military Strength is made up of the following: 
 
 1. Rolled dice - Note: 1 die guarantees a minimum of 2 Military Strength, while 2 dice guarantees at least 4. 
 2. Hired Crew Strength (shown at the top left of each Hired Crew card). 
 3. Hired Crew Actions (shown at the bottom left of each Hired Crew card) - Some Crew offer additional 
 Military Strength when raiding specific Settlements. Players should check these when raiding. 
 4. Armour - This can be bought at the Armoury with Iron or Silver. It is never spent during a raid. Rather, 
 it offers constant Military Strength to players’ Crews. 
 
 Military Strength = Rolled Dice + Crew Strength + Crew Actions + Armour 
 
After totalling their Military Strength, players determine how many Victory Points they gained, if any. These are 
scored immediately by moving the current player’s Score Marker around the Victory Point Track. 
 
Should players’ scores ever reach 50 Victory Points, they should turn over their Ship Card, revealing the 50 VP 
side. Players loop their Score Marker back around to the 0 mark and continue scoring as normal. Their total 
score now equals 50, plus their score on the Victory Point Track.
After scoring any Victory Points for Military Strength and Hired Crew, players pick up their new Worker and 
Plunder. Players must take 1 of the remaining sets of Plunder from the raided Settlement. 
 
Once all Plunder has been taken, players can no longer raid that particular Settlement (there will be no available 
Worker Spots anyway). 
 
Plunder is worth Victory Points at the game’s end. 	
 = 1 VP 	
 = 1 VP = 1 VP 
However, it can also be spent throughout the game to help make further raids, or gain additional Victory Points. 
 
For now, players take the Plunder, adding it to their supply. 
 
Some raids may also include 1 or more Valkyrie with the Plunder. Although taking Valkyrie result in 
the death of hired Crew Members, they also offer another way of scoring Victory Points. When taking 
Valkyrie, players should follow these steps: 
 
1. For each Valkyrie taken, players must lose (discard) 1 hired Crew Member of their choice. Some Hired 
 Crew allow players additional actions if killed during a raid. These actions are resolved immediately. 
 If players take more Valkyrie than they have Hired Crew, they cannot claim the excess Valkyrie for 
 further scoring. Extra Valkyrie are removed without action, and placed back into the Main Supply. 
 
2. Players move their Score Marker 1 space up the Valkyrie Track for each Valkyrie taken 
 during a raid. At the game’s end, players will score Victory Points for the total amount of 
 Valkyrie they’ve taken during the game. Players may take more than 7 Valkyrie throughout 
 the game (still losing Crew), but will only score a maximum of 7 (15 VP) at the game’s end. 
 
3. Players place all collected Valkyrie into the Main Supply (they do not keep them).
3. Plunder and Valkyrie
Some Hired Crew offer additional Victory Points when raiding specific Settlements. 
These are additional to any Victory Points gained for Military Strength (even if 
they scored none), and are added to the Victory Point Track in the same manner.
2. Hired Crew

townsfolk clarifications
end of the game
There are 3 ways the game can end: 
 1. There is only 1 set of Plunder left in the Fortresses (1 of the 6 Fortress raids remains). 
 2. The Offering Draw Pile has been emptied. 
 3. There are no Valkyrie left on the board. 
 
Once 1 of these 3 conditions have been met, the current player finishes their turn, resolving any unfinished 
actions. Each player (including the current player) has 1 final turn before the game ends (1 final round).
Once the game has ended, players score additional end-game Victory Points. These are recorded by moving 
players’ Score Markers around the Victory Point Track. End-game scoring consists of: 
 
 1. Valkyrie Track - Players score Victory Points based on how high their Score Marker is on this track. 
 Victory Points gained are shown on the right side of the Valkyrie Track. 
 
 2. Armoury Track - This is scored in the same manner as the Valkyrie Track. 
 
 3. Collected Offering Tiles - These are revealed and their values added to the Victory Point Track. 
 
 4. Hired Crew - Some Crew Members earn Victory Points, as shown on each card. 
 
 5. Plunder - Players score any Plunder they hold: 
 1 Gold = 1 Victory Point 
 1 Iron = 1 Victory Point 
 2 Livestock = 1 Victory Point (1 Livestock scores nothing on its own) 
 
After each player has added all their end-game scores to the Victory Point Track, the player with the highest final 
score is declared the winner! In the case of a tie, the player furthest up the Valkyrie Track is the winner. If still tied, 
the player furthest up the Armoury Track is the winner.
end-game scoring
Archer - Town Hall Action: “Swap an opponent’s Worker with 1 from the Village” 
 This must be a legal placement. If an opponent has a Black Worker, it cannot be swapped with 1 from the 
 Armoury or Long House (as they require a Grey or White Worker). 
 
Avenger - Crew Action: “If killed, force an opponent to lose a Crew Member also” 
 The Crew Member to be discarded is chosen by the targeted player (not the attacker). 
 
Forager - Crew Action: “Gain 1 additional Provision in the Mill” 
 This is only activated when players take Provisions, not Gold. 
 
Gravedigger - Town Hall Action: “Swap 1 Hired Crew Member with a card from your hand” 
 This is between the current player and their Hired Crew. The chosen Crew Member is placed back into their 
 hand. They then hire a different Crew Member from their hand (at no cost). 
 
Mercenary - Town Hall Action: “All players must give you 1 Silver or 1 Provision” 
 This decision is made by the targeted players (not the attacker). If they have no Silver, they must offer 
 Provisions (likewise if they have no Provisions). If they have neither, nothing happens. 
 
Sage - Town Hall Action: “Move all 3 Offering Tiles to the bottom of the Stack” 
 This is to clear the current Offering Tiles. They are placed below the Offering Tile Stack, 
 and 3 new tiles are drawn from the top of the stack to replace them. 
 
Scout - Town Hall Action: “Swap an equal amount of cards with an opponent” 
 The attacking player selects an opponent and announces how many cards they 
 wish to swap. Both players select their cards privately and make the swap. 
 
 
Commonly used phrases worth explaining:
 
“If Killed...” - These actions are only activated by the current player taking 
Valkyrie. Deaths caused by Avengers do not activate them. 
 
“Pay 1 Less...” - These actions may result in players paying no Silver, Gold 
or Provision when taking them. These are still considered legal actions.

village buildings
Gate House - Draw 2 cards from the Townsfolk Draw Pile. 
 Players are limited to holding 8 cards in their hand. However, this is only in effect at the end of 
 each turn. If they hold too many cards at this point, they must discard back down to 8. 
 
Town Hall - Play 1 Hand Card. Played cards are placed in the discard pile and their actions 
 resolved immediately. The Town Hall action is shown at the bottom right of each card. 
 
Treasury - Discard 1 Hand Card to gain 2 Silver, or discard 2 cards to gain 1 Gold. 
 Cards are placed in the Discard Pile. Silver or Gold is always taken from the Main Supply. 
 
Barracks - Hire a new Crew Member. 
 Choosing a card from their hand, players pay the required Silver (shown on the left side of 
 each card) to the Main Supply. The newly Hired Crew Member is placed faceup in front of 
 them. Players can never hire more than 5 Crew Members. However, they may choose to 
 discard a Crew Member before hiring a new one. 
 Note: Players may hire more than 1 of the same Crew Member if they wish. 
 
Armoury - Lose 1 Iron to gain 2 Armour, or lose 2 Silver to gain 1 Armour. 
 The Iron or Silver is paid to the Main Supply. Players then move their Score Marker 1 or 2 
 spaces up the Armoury track. Players cannot purchase more than 10 Armour. 
 
Mill - Gain Provisions or Gold. 
 These are taken from the Main Supply. A Black Worker gains 1 Provision. A Grey Worker 
 gains 2 Provisions. A White Worker gains either 2 Provisions, or 1 Gold. 
 
Silversmith - Gain Silver. This is taken from the Main Supply. 
 A Black Worker gains 3 Silver. A Grey or White Worker gains 2 Silver. 
 
Long House - This allows players to take 1 of 2 actions: 
 1. Lose 1 Livestock to gain 2 Provisions - These are exchanged with the Main Supply. 
 2. Offer goods to the Chieftain - Pay the required Plunder and/or Silver shown on the desired 
 Offering Tile to the Main Supply. The Offering Tile is picked up and kept facedown in front of 
 the current player. A new Offering Tile is immediately turned over from the Offering Stack to 
 fill the empty space. Players score the VP on their collected Offering Tiles at the game’s end.