Game Design by Steve Jackson 
Cover by David R. Deitrick 
Illustrations and Counter Graphics by Denis Loubet 
Research by Elton Fewell Jr., Joseph M. Hurst, Forrest Johnson, and Steve Jackson 
Playtesters: Forrest Johnson, Joseph M. Hurst, Nick Schuessler, Elisabeth Barrington, Aaron Allston, Jerry Self, Dave 
Bolduc, Jeff Jacobsen, Elton Fewell, Jr. 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Game Rules 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 
 
Charts & Tables 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 
 
Player Aid Sheet 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15 
 
About This Game 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 16 
 
Historical Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 17 
 
Alternate Scenario (“What’s Sauce for the Goose...”) 
Page xx 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
2 of 18 
© 1980 Steve Jackson Games 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Raid on Iran is a military simulation, or "wargame". It is an 
attempt to represent what might have happened if the U.S. raid on 
April 25, 1980, intended to free the hostages, had actually gone in. 
An alternate scenario (highly speculative) looks at the possibility 
that a commando team might have tried to kidnap the Ayatollah 
himself in order to exchange him for the hostages. 
 
Before playing this game, we suggest that each player read the 
rules once, quickly, all the way through. Then set up the map and 
units and start to play, referring to the rules as you go. The rules 
sections appear in roughly the order you will need them as you 
play the game. 
 
1. COMPONENTS 
 
This game includes the following components: the embassy map, 
the rules sheet, the sheet of charts and tables, and 119 counters 
to represent U.S. and Iranian units. If this is the first time you 
have played, cut the sheets and counters apart. Otherwise, check 
to make sure you have all the components. You will also need at 
least two dice, a pencil and paper, and a straightedge. 
 
1.1 The Map. The game map is based on actual maps and aerial 
photographs of the embassy area. However, the scale has been 
distorted as part of the "area" system of movement (see section 
6). Buildings are shown much larger than life, since they contain 
many areas and are the focus of combat. Road areas are long and 
contact many other areas... because roads aid movement. Woods 
areas are small and close-set... because forest impedes 
movement. 
 
There are four kinds of terrain shown on the map: buildings, 
woods, roads, and lawns. 
 
Buildings are shown in shades of blue. They are also set off by 
heavier lines than the other areas. Buildings provide partial 
protection for units inside them. 
 
Woods are shown in green, with tree symbols. They also provide 
some protection. However, woods may have been mined by the 
Iranians. (These "woods" are actually shaded part areas, now 
somewhat overgrown with brush) 
 
Roads (and streets and parking lots, which are treated the same 
way) are shown in yellow-brown. They are convenient for 
movement, but very exposed. Roads are inside the Embassy; 
streets are outside. 
 
Lawns (and the football field and tennis court) are shown in light 
green. They are very exposed, but make good helicopter landing 
zones. 
 
1.2 Unit counters. The men and weapons of each side are 
represented by cardboard counters. These counters will also be 
called "units". 
 
American units are white with red and blue markings. 
 
Commandos are shown by a picture of an infantryman and a 
number. The number represents the amount of men in the unit. 
It is also the attack and defense strength of the unit. These 
counters are interchangeable; one 10 is the same as two 5's or ten 
1's. Units may break up and recombine at any time. 
 
Hostage counters carry a picture of a bound prisoner. The small 
number on each hostage counter is for identification. Each 
hostage counter may represent any number of hostages. A record 
should be kept of the number of hostages (and wounded soldiers) 
represented by each counter. 
 
Helicopter counters are also numbered, 1 through 8. Each counter 
represents one RH 53-D "sea Stallion" helicopter, of the type used 
in the actual operation. 
 
Special weapons counters represent one weapon each - four 
mortars and one .50-caliber machine gun - and are discussed in 
section 9. 
 
Breach counters represent a hole in the embassy outer wall. 
 
Iranian units are red with black markings. 
 
Militants are shown by a picture of an armed Iranian "student", 
and a number. The number represents the amount of men in the 
unit. It is also the attack and defense strength of the unit. 
Militant counters, like U.S. units, are interchangeable and may 
combine or break up freely. 
 
Mob counters represent groups of 20 to 30 lightly armed fanatics. 
 
Khomeini. The counter representing the Ayatollah Khomeini 
himself is used in the "Sauce for the Goose" scenario. 
 
1.3 Rules sheet and charts. The rules sheet (which you are 
reading) is separate from the charts and tables, for ease in 
reference. 
 
2. SETUP 
 
2.1 Iranian Setup. The Iranian player sets up first. The map is 
laid out (it may be a good idea to tape the corners down). The 
Iranian player then takes 4 hostage counters and 120 militants. 
He also takes the U.S. helicopter counters and Khomeini. These 
will be used for "dummy" counters. 
Hostage Placement. The militants are holding 50 hostages in the 
embassy. At least 15 must be placed in the Residence basement; 
at least 20 must be placed in the Chancellery basement. The 
other hostages may be placed anywhere inside these two buildings 
(not on the roof). Thus, there may be as few as two groups of 
hostages at the start of the game, or as many as four. The 
Iranian player records the number of hostages represented by 
each counter. 
 
Guard Placement. Militant units are placed as hostage guards. 
There may be up to five men guarding each hostage counter. If a 
hostage counter is placed on the map, but represents no hostages, 
the Iranian player may put militants with it. However, they do 
NOT count as "guards" - they're asleep. 
 
Sentry Placement. 25 militants are placed as sentries. 10 go in 
Road 12 (the main gate); 5 go in Road 1 (the rear gate). The 
other 10 may be placed, together or separately, in any road 
area(s). They may not be set up except in road areas. Where 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3 of 18 
these rules refer to "sentries" later on, they mean Iranian units set 
up in the roads and not yet alerted. 
 
Other Militants. The remainder of the 120 beginning militants are 
turned upside down and mixed up. The nine dummy counters are 
placed with them, also upside-down. One counter, still inverted, is 
now placed in each ground-floor building area that does not 
already contain Iranian units. Any leftover counters are distributed 
evenly among Buildings 1 through 5, as the Iranian player wishes. 
(Neither player knows where all the militants are.) 
 
Once all Iranian counters are on the board, they are ALL turned 
upside down. Neither player may look at any of these counters 
again until it has been "alerted" and turned right side up. 
 
2.2 U.S. Setup. The American player then takes enough 
counters for 90 troops (in any combination of units he likes) and 
two mortars. He also gets ten "satchel charges" for breaching 
walls, but no counters for these are necessary. The U.S. player 
puts his units in the street areas, outside the Embassy compound; 
he may start as many as he likes in any street area. 
 
2.3 Special Advantages. Each player begins the game with one 
of the following special advantages. Each player writes down his 
choice before the game, and reveals it to the other player only 
when the time comes to use it. 
 
American Options: 
 
(1) Extra explosive charges. Instead of only 10 satchel charges, 
the U.S. player may take 50. 
 
(2) Farsi speakers. The American troops may be accompanied by 
a number of friendly Iranians and agents who speak fluent Farsi 
(the Persian tongue). If this option is chosen, the American may 
add two to his die roll whenever he attempts negotiation or 
deception. 
 
(3) Extraordinary diversion. It is assumed that U.S. agents outside 
the embassy would be creating diversions to delay Iranian 
reinforcements. This option allows for a truly elaborate diversion. 
Entry of Iranian reinforcements is delayed by four turns. 
 
(4) Mole in the Militants. One of the embassy militants could have 
been a "mole" - an agent under deep cover. If this option is 
chosen, the U.S. player begins the game knowing where each 
hostage counter is, how many hostages are represented by each 
counter, and how many guards are on each. 
 
(5) More special weapons. The U.S. player may take either two 
more mortars or one .50-caliber machine gun. (Use of this option 
is the only way the American player can get the machine gun.) 
 
Iranian Options: 
 
(1) Better communications. Entry of Iranian reinforcements is 
speeded by three turns. Thus, they would begin on turn 7 (or turn 
11, if the American player picked option 3). 
 
(2) Extra manpower. The Iranian player starts with 140 men 
instead of 120. 
 
(3) Extreme fanaticism. If this option is picked, the Iranian 
militants have received intensive anti-American indoctrination, 
speeches by Khomeini, etc. Thus, they are especially fanatic. The 
American must subtract 2 from his die roll whenever he tries to 
negotiate. The Iranian player adds 2 to his die roll whenever an 
attempt is made to execute hostages. 
 
(4) Booby traps. The militants have threatened at times to mine 
the embassy grounds. If this option is chosen, they do so. The 
Iranian player writes down the numbers of any three woods areas. 
These areas are mined. Any unit or group of units that enters one 
of these areas, throughout the game, suffers an immediate ranged 
attack on the 11-15 column (no die-roll modifications). 
 
(5) Changed hostage location. One hostage counter, representing 
up to 10 hostages, may be set up inside any building area. There 
must still be at least 15 hostages in the Residence basement and 
20 in the Chancellery basement. 
 
3. TURN PHASING 
 
RAID ON IRAN is played in turns: first an American turn, then an 
Iranian turn (however, the Iranian player may miss his first few 
turns if the U.S. player avoids alerting his sentries - see below). 
Each turn has several phases. The phases of a turn must be 
carried out in their proper order. 
 
American Turn: 
 
(1) Make any breaches in outer wall. 
(2) Attempt negotiation (if any). 
(3) Make all ranged attacks. 
(4) Land helicopters. Move units (except those that made ranged 
attacks). 
(5) Resolve all close attacks created by movement. 
 
Iranian Turn: 
 
(1) Bring in reinforcements (if any). 
(2) Make all ranged attacks. 
(3) Move units (except those that made ranged attacks). 
(4) Attempt die rolls to alert "sleeping" units. 
(5) Resolve close attacks created by movement. 
 
Changing Facing: Each unit may either make a ranged attack or 
move on each turn - but it may not do both. (Exception: the U.S. 
double move. See Section 6.1). A convenient way to keep track 
of which units have fired is to begin your with all units facing "up" 
- that is, north-south. When a unit makes a ranged attack, turn it 
sideways. After you finish with ranged combat, only those units, 
which have not been turned, are eligible to move and/or initiate 
close combat. Facing has no other effect on play. 
 
Record Keeping: On a separate piece of paper, the players should 
keep track of the following things: 
 
(1) What turn it is. 
(2) The turn on which the Iranian sentries were alerted. 
(3) The turn on which helicopters enter. 
(4) How many U.S. troops and hostages have been executed or 
eliminated in combat. 
(5) The number of hostages and/or wounded troops represented 
by each numbered hostage counter. 
(6) The number of satchel charges which have been used. 
(7) Damage to each helicopter and turns it has hovered. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
4 of 18 
4. STARTING PLAY 
 
The American player moves first. On his first move, he will send 
some or all of his units from the street into the embassy proper. 
He may do this in several ways: 
 
4.1 Stealth. Commando units may climb over the embassy wall, 
from road to street or vice versa; this counts as a regular move. 
Any number of commandos may climb the wall each turn; 
however, no more than 10 per turn may enter in any one area. If 
the sentries have not yet been alerted, the commandos may try to 
get over the wall without alerting them. This is an "entry by 
stealth". 
 
Each turn that commandos climb the wall, the U.S. player rolls two 
dice and consults the Entry By Stealth table (Table 1). A 
successful roll means that the entry did not alert the sentries; a 
failed roll means the sentries were alerted by the commandos' 
entry. See Section 5. Commandos may climb the wall even after 
the sentries have been alerted. The "stealth" table is no longer 
needed. 
 
Attacking Sentries: If there are sentries (any number) in an area to 
be entered by stealth, the U.S. player subtracts 4 from his die roll. 
Whether or not the sentries are alerted by the entry itself, the U.S. 
troops must immediately close attack. Only if they enter without 
being seen, and then make a successful "quiet attack" (see Section 
10) will they avoid alerting the rest of the sentries. 
 
4.2 Deceit. If the Iranian sentries have not been alerted, the 
American commandos may attempt one "entry by deceit". 
Disguised as a supply convoy, they can try to talk their way into 
either the front or rear gate. 
 
The fake "supply convoy" may contain up to 50 American (plus, if 
desired, any or all of the special weapons). To see if the Iranians 
are fooled, the American rolls two dice and consults the Stealth 
Table, based on the number of men entering. However, he adds 
two to his die roll, and doe not subtract for any of the 
modifications listed there. Thus if there were 30 men in the fake 
convoy, it would enter successfully on a roll of 6 or better. (If the 
U.S. troops have Farsi speakers with them, their die roll is 
improved by 2). 
 
If the ruse works, no sentries are alerted. To continue the 
deception, the convoy must act normally while in view of the 
sentries. Convoy units must stay together, moving on roads or 
parking lots only, until they reach an area at least 2 areas away 
from any sentries. The convoy may also break up, move into other 
kinds of areas - or attack - while close to the sentries. To do so 
will alert all sentries immediately, unless the attack is a successful 
"quiet attack". If the convoy enters another area containing 
sentries, it must make another die roll, as above. 
 
If the convoy is detected at any time, its units make an immediate 
close attack on any Iranian units in their area. Similarly, if 
something else alerts sentries while the convoy is in their area, the 
convoy units close attack immediately. 
 
The convoy may enter on the same turn that other units attempt 
an entry by stealth. However, if the entry-by-stealth occurs first 
and is detected, the sentries are alerted, and the convoy loses any 
chance to enter the gate without combat. 
 
4.3 Force. The Americans have 10 satchel charges, any one of 
which will open a breach in the outer wall. There are no counters 
for satchel charges; until they are all used up, the American may 
use one anywhere he has commandos. 
 
When a charge is used on the outer wall, place a "BREACH" 
counter there. Units may now move between the street and road 
areas there, as though the wall did not exist, starting that same 
turn. Any number of units may use a breach. 
 
Any number of charges may be used to breach a wall (though one 
is enough). Each charge used against the embassy wall counts as 
a ranged attack (strength of 2) against any sentries on the other 
side. Three charges thus equal a ranged attack with strength of 6. 
If U.S. units move through the breach that turn, they must close 
attack any surviving sentries. Note that any explosion will 
instantly alert all sentries and any other units within 3 areas of the 
road where it occurs. 
 
5. IRANIAN ALERT 
 
The raid was to take place in the early hours of the morning, local 
time... a surprise attack. Therefore, no Iranian unit may move or 
attack until it has been "alerted". All Iranian units (and the 
hostages) begin the game upside down to indicate that they are 
not alerted. When a unit is alerted, turn it right side up. 
 
5.1 Alerting Sentries. The sentries are those Iranian units that 
being the game in road areas. They are awake, and are presumed 
to carry radios. If one sentry is alerted, they are ALL immediately 
alerted. 
 
All sentries are instantly alerted if: 
(a) Any satchel charge, mortar round, or booby trap goes off 
anywhere. 
(b) Any U.S. unit makes any attack except a successful "quiet 
attack". 
(c) Any U.S. entry by stealth or deceit (see Sections 4.1 and 4.2) is 
detected. 
 
5.2 Alerting other Iranian units. Other Iranian units must be 
individually alerted. They begin the game off-duty, cooped up 
with the hostages, or (for the most part) asleep. Furthermore, the 
Iranian player doesn't know for sure where all his units are. A 
non-sentry unit is instantly alerted when: 
 
(a) An American unit fires on it, or calls for its surrender. 
(b) A booby trap, mortar round, or satchel charge goes off within 3 
areas of its position. 
(c) Any unit fires on an enemy (or is fired upon) within two areas 
of its position, or anywhere inside the same building. 
(d) Another Iranian unit alerts it. To alert another unit, an Iranian 
must move into its area and then roll a 1, 2 or 3 on 1 die. The 
"alerting" unit rolls as soon as it enters the area. On a successful 
roll, the unit becomes alerted immediately, but may not move or 
attack until its next turn. On an unsuccessful roll, the alerting unit 
may try again once per turn until it succeeds. Exception: If a 
guard unit (that is, any Iranian unit in an area with hostages) has 
not been alerted, it will be alerted automatically by any Iranian 
unit entering the area. 
 
5.3 Helicopter alert. When the first U.S. helicopters appear, all 
remaining Iranian units are alerted (and the U.S. player gets his 
helicopter counters back). 
 
5.4 Alerting dummies. When a newly alerted unit proves to be 
a dummy (Khomeini or a helicopter), remove it from the board. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
5 of 18 
6. MOVEMENT 
 
This game uses a system of “area movement”. The map is 
divided in 138 areas, each of which has a name. Areas represent 
differing amounts of territory – all fairly large. Any number of 
units may occupy an area. 
 
The black lines on the map represent area boundaries. Extra-
heavy lines are used to indicate building walls and the wall around 
the embassy compound. 
 
Normally, each unit may move one area per turn. In other words, 
it may move out of its own area into any adjacent area. Areas are 
adjacent only if they share a border. Areas which touch only at 
corners (for example, Woods 44 and 53) are not adjacent. 
 
The embassy wall, near the edge of the map, is the only area 
boundary that blocks movement. Units may not cross the 
embassy wall (that is, move from a “street” area to a “road” area, 
or vice versa) unless they use a gate (Street 1 or Street 14) or a 
breach made by a satchel charge. Exception: US troops may climb 
over the wall (see section 4.1) in either direction. No more than 
10 may climb over the wall in any one area each turn. Hostages 
or wounded soldiers may not climb the wall. 
 
Each counter may move once (and only once) per turn, unless (a) 
it made a “ranged attack” that turn (in which case it cannot move 
at all) or (b) it is a U.S. unit making the “double move”. 
 
Each building has at least two areas: ground floor and roof. The 
Chancellery has two stories; the Ambassador’s Residence has 
three. (Each of these buildings also has a basement). Each story 
is a separate area. Furthermore, the larger buildings are divided in 
half geographically: north/south or east/west. Thus, the Library 
comprises two sections. The Library North is separate from the 
Library South; the two roof sections are likewise separate. Thus, 
the Library has four areas. The Residence has five separate areas; 
the Chancellery has seven. 
 
Movement within a building is treated like movement between any 
other areas. Areas are not adjacent unless they share a boundary. 
For instance, a unit in the Chancellery West on the first floor may 
(a) go up to the second floor west; (b) go down to the basement; 
or (c) go across to the first floor east. No other areas within the 
building are adjacent. 
 
To reach the roof areas of most buildings, it is necessary to enter 
the buildings. However, the roof areas of the small houses and 
Buildings 3 and 4 are adjacent to ground areas. These roofs can 
be reached from the ground. 
 
6.1 The Double Move. Commando units are in top training, and 
habitually do the unexpected. Once per turn, a single U.S. unit (or 
group of units acting together) may make a DOUBLE move. In the 
double move, they may either (a) make a ranged attack and then 
move one area, or (b) make two moves of one area each. They 
may not move one area and then make a ranged attack. 
 
If a unit chooses to move twice, its first move may not be into an 
Iranian-occupied area. However, its second move may (this will 
result in a close attack). 
 
All U.S. troops, helicopter crew members, and hostages may 
participate in a double move. Because of their weight, machine-
guns and mortars cannot. If the unit carrying them makes a 
double move, the machine-gun or mortar(s) must be left behind. 
 
NOTE: It is legal for some units in an area to make a double 
move, while others do not. 
 
In order for a group of U.S. units to double move together, they 
must all do the same thing. They must all start and finish in the 
same area. If they make a ranged attack, they must all fire – but 
not necessarily at the same area. 
 
The U.S. player does not have to designate which stack will take a 
second move until after the rest of his turn is finished. At that 
time, he simply takes one unit or stack that has already acted – 
and moves it one area further. If this results in a close attack, 
that attack is then resolved. 
 
Special Cases. (1) It is possible for a unit, using its double move, 
to attack twice per turn – one ranged and one close. This is legal. 
(2) If a unit’s double move brings it into a close attack, and U.S. 
units from other areas are close attacking the same enemies that 
turn, the U.S. player makes that double move before that attack is 
resolved. Otherwise, he would be making two separate close 
attacks against the same area in one turn – which is illegal. See 
Section 8. 
 
6.2 Stacking. Any number of units may occupy the same area. 
They are treated as a unit for defensive purposes. However, they 
do not all have to attack the same way, or attack the same enemy. 
If the American player has 30 men atop the roof of the North 
Library, he could have 10 make a ranged attack against Lot 3, 10 
make a close attack against foes on the South Library roof, and 10 
move down into the North Library – all on the same turn. 
 
It is quite possible for both players to have units in the same area 
at once. This happens as a result of close combat (Section 8.3). 
The player whose turn it is must move his units out or make a 
close attack himself. 
 
6.3 Leaving the Map. Either player may move units off the 
map. Once a unit leaves the map, it may not return. 
 
U.S. units may move off the map in a helicopter (Section 16.1) or 
on the street (Section 16.2). Once off the map, they have 
escaped. 
 
The Iranian player may escort hostages off the map to prevent 
their rescue. No Iranian unit may leave the embassy compound 
(i.e. enter a street area) until 10 turns after the sentries are 
alerted. If the sentries are alerted on Turn 3, hostages could be 
taken into a street area on Turn 13. One the next move (Turn 
14), the Iranian player may move them out of the street area and 
off the map. Once a hostage counter has been moved off the 
map, it cannot be rescued. 
 
7. RANGED COMBAT 
 
There are two different kinds of combat: ranged combat and close 
combat. 
 
Ranged combat takes place before movement. In ranged combat, 
a unit in one area fires on a unit in another area. There is no risk 
to the attacking unit. A unit that makes a ranged attack cannot 
move that turn. You cannot have ranged combat with units that 
are in the same area. 
 
Normally, a unit’s range of fire is only one area – that is, a ranged 
attack can only be made against enemies in an adjacent area. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
6 of 18 
However, a unit may fire at greater range if it is above ground 
level. 
 
7.1 Increased Range for Height. A unit on a first-floor roof, or 
on the second floor, has a range of two areas, counting from the 
ground floor of that section of building. Example: A unit on the 
Library North Roof could make a ranged attack against enemies in 
Woods 6, 9, or 10, or Roads 19 or 20 – all of which are two areas 
away from the North Library ground floor. 
 
A unit on a second- or third-story roof, or on the third floor, has a 
range of three areas, counting from the ground floor of that 
section of building. Example: A unit on the Chancellery West roof 
could fire as far away as Woods 7 or 8, or the Library North – all of 
which are three areas away. 
 
7.2 Range of Special Weapons. Mortars and machine guns 
have an unlimited range (on this map scale, that is). A mortar can 
make a ranged attack against any area except one inside a 
building. A machine gun may fire on any area as long as it has a 
line of sight (see below). 
 
7.3 Line of Sight. A unit attacking an adjacent area 
automatically has a line of sight, or LOS. (Exception: the embassy 
wall blocks LOS between street areas and the adjacent roads). 
Attacks at longer ranges must have a clear LOS. 
 
To determine LOS, put a straightedge on the map. If it is possible 
to join any portion of the attackers’ area with any portion of the 
defenders’ area without passing through a woods or building area, 
the LOS is clear. LOS must join the interiors of the areas at some 
point... any point. LOS cannot run along the edge of a woods or 
building area – it must be totally clear. 
 
Note that it is perfectly all right to fire into a woods or building 
area – but the LOS cannot go all the way through one. A mortar 
does not need LOS. 
 
Line of sight to any building area is always figured from its ground 
floor. If the ground floor of a building area has a clear LOS, the 
roof and upper stories do too. In the case of the houses and 
Buildings 3 and 4, if the roof has a clear LOS, the inside of the 
building does too. (In reality, upper areas of all buildings are the 
same shape as the ground floor). Basements have no LOS 
outside! 
 
The embassy wall blocks LOS and movement except at gates and 
breaches. 
 
LOS through units. Units (friendly or enemy) do not block LOS. 
Units are not endangered by long-range attacks passing through 
or over their area. 
 
7.4 Height. A first-story roof is above all ground and ground 
floor areas. The second story is higher than a first-story roof. The 
second story roof is higher than the second story, and so on. 
 
Attacks against an enemy at a higher level are at a -1 on the die 
roll. Attacks against an enemy on a lower level receive no die roll 
advantage. However, a unit with a height advantage gains a 
range advantage, and may fire on units at a distance – while often 
those units cannot fire back at all. 
 
7.5 Resolving Ranged Combat. Only one ranged attack may 
be made against each enemy-occupied area each turn. Combine 
the strengths of all units joining in that attack, even if they are 
firing from different areas. In ranged combat, only the attackers’ 
strength is important; the strength of the defenders has no effect 
on the result. 
 
The attacker rolls one die and refers to the appropriate column of 
the Ranged Combat Table to determine what losses the defender 
takes. Note that several factors (listed below the table) may 
modify the result. These modifications are cumulative, and apply 
to both ranged and close combat. 
 
7.6 Ranged Attack Within Buildings. It is impossible for any 
number of men to lay down ranged fire within a building. A 
massed attack up the stairwells (or through floors) is possible, but 
dangerous. Mass sniping up the stairs is impossible! About the 
most you could do would be to use a few grenades. Therefore, if 
a ranged attack is made from one building area to another area in 
the same building, it is never resolved on more than the “6-10” 
column, even if more than 10 men are attacking. 
 
7.7 Ranged Attack Against Areas Containing Friendly 
Units. If units belonging to both players are in the same area, a 
player attacking with ranged fire may endanger his own units. 
The player making the ranged attack has two choices: 
 
(1) He can reduce the effectiveness of his fire to avoid hitting his 
own men. He subtracts an extra 2 from his die roll against the 
enemy units. His own units in that area are not endangered. A 
mortar attack cannot take this option. 
 
(2) He can fire at the enemy, and hope his own troops keep their 
heads down. In this case, a normal die roll is made against the 
enemy units. A second die roll, at the same attack strength, is 
then made against the friendly units in that area. If the U.S. 
player is firing, he may subtract 2 from this roll (better training 
counts!) All modifiers for terrain, height, etc., also remain in 
effect. 
 
8. CLOSE ATTACKS 
 
The second kind of combat is the close attack, made by a unit 
actually entering an enemy-held area. Close attacks are resolved 
after all movement takes place. A close attack usually means 
casualties for both the attacker and the defender; in fact, a close 
attack at bad odds is suicidal. 
 
To make a close attack, the attacker moves one or more units into 
an enemy-held area. The attacking units may come from more 
than one area. Only one close attack may be made on each 
enemy-held area per turn. 
 
8.1 Resolving Close Attacks. The total strength of the 
attackers is combined and compared to the total strength of the 
defenders in the area. The ratio is then rounded off in favor of the 
DEFENDER. For instance, if 20 men close attack 10, the attack is 
at “2 to 1”. However, if 19 men attack 10, the attack is rounded 
down to a “1 to 1”. An attack at less than “1 to 3” is resolved on 
the “1-3” column of the Close Attack table; an attack at better 
than “4 to 1” is resolved on the “4-1” column. 
 
A few more examples of combat odds calculation: 12 to 14 = “1 to 
2”. 35 to 14 = “2 to 1”. 40 to 5 counts as “4 to 1”. 5 to 40 
counts as “1 to 3”. 
 
8.2 Retreat. If the modified die roll in a close attack is 1 or 
more, any surviving attackers stay in the area they close attacked. 
However, if the modified result is a zero or less, the attackers are 

 
 
 
 
 
 
7 of 18 
“driven back with light losses”. The attackers automatically lose 2 
men, and must retreat to the area from which they attacked. 
 
Therefore, when a close attack is made by units from several areas 
combining into one assault, keep track of which units attacked 
from where. If they are forced to retreat, the survivors must 
retreat to the areas from which they entered. They can’t all join 
and retreat to the same area. 
 
8.3 Forced Close Combat. If a close combat does not result in 
an “X” result (eliminating one side) or a retreat, it will leave units 
of both sides occupying the same area. This will force close 
combat if the enemy elects to stay in the same area in his turn. 
 
Whenever a player’s units begin a turn in the same area with 
enemy units, they have only two options: they can move out, or 
stand and close attack the enemy units in that same area. Treat 
this as a normal close attack. It is possible for friendly units from 
an adjacent area to move in and join them in the close attack. 
 
If attackers who began in the same area with the enemy get an 
adjusted die roll of zero or less, they have two choices: (a) lose 
two men and retreat to any adjacent area not occupied by enemy 
units, or (b) lose 5 men and stand their ground. Units that have 
no free area to retreat to must take the second option. 
 
Special Case. It is possible that units will (a) begin their move in 
an area with enemy units, (b) move out of the area to close attack 
enemies in an adjacent area, and (c) get a result of zero or less. 
They are “caught between two fires!”. They must immediately 
retreat to the area from which they came, and make a close attack 
on the enemy units there. This is an exception to the general rule 
that a unit may not attack twice per turn. A unit may be bounced 
back and forth like this until it either gets a result of better than 
zero or is eliminated. 
 
9. SPECIAL WEAPONS 
 
There are three kinds of “special weapons” available to the U.S. 
player. These weapons increase the printed combat strength of 
the units using them. 
 
9.1 Satchel Charges. The U.S. player starts with ten of these, 
mainly for use against the walls. If they are not expended against 
the walls, they may be used in combat. There are no counters for 
these charges. The American player must keep track of how many 
he has used – but until they’re all used up, he may use one 
wherever he has a commando unit. 
 
A satchel charge is nothing but a packet of high explosive with a 
fuse or short timer. The only quick way to use one in combat 
(without severe danger to the user) is to drop it on the enemy. 
Therefore, a satchel charge adds 5 to any ranged attack IF the 
attackers are firing from an upper story of a building (or a roof) 
onto the ground below. The commandos just set the timer for 
about ten seconds, and toss it off. A commando unit may also use 
a satchel charge by throwing it over the Embassy wall – from a 
street area to an adjacent road area, or vice versa. This is the 
only way a ranged attack may e made through the wall unless a 
gate or breach is present. Used this way, a charge also has a 
strength of 5, and does not breach the wall. 
 
A satchel charge may not be used in combat in any other way. It’s 
theoretically possible... but too dangerous to the user and the men 
with him. 
 
Any number of satchel charges, up to the number of men in the 
unit using them, may be thrown in one turn. A soldier may fire on 
the turn he throws a satchel charge. 
 
9.2 Mortars. This counter represents a 60mm light mortar. Two 
men are required to carry or fire a mortar. They cannot fire their 
own weapons on any turn they use the mortar. The mortar may 
not move by itself – it has to be carried. The mortar may not be in 
a stack that makes a double move. 
 
The mortar may fire from any area on the board except woods or 
the inside of a building. It may be used against any area except 
an area inside a building. It is capable or ranged attack only, but 
its range is unlimited and it does NOT require a clear LOS. It has 
an attack strength of 5 – that is, it is equivalent to 5 men 
attacking. It counts as zero in defense. 
 
9.3 The .50 Caliber Machine Gun. This weapon is available 
only as an option. It is extremely heavy and bulky; the 
commandos probably wouldn’t have taken it. Once set up, 
though, a heavy machine gun would be very useful. 
 
Like a mortar, the .50 caliber cannot move or attack by itself. It 
takes two men to fire it; they may not fire their own weapons that 
turn. It takes five men to move it, due to the great weight of the 
gun, tripod, and ammunition. 
 
Once the machine gun has entered an area, it must stand still for 
one turn before it can be fired. This represents the time it takes to 
set it up. If the U.S. player gets the gun where he wants it on 
Turn 6, he must spend Turn 7 setting it up, and can fire it on Turn 
8. It does not require a turn to disassemble; it may be moved on 
any turn. It may not be in a stack that makes a double move. 
 
The machine gun may fire once per turn. It may make ranged 
attacks only, firing at any range where LOS can be established. It 
has an attack strength of 25. 
 
If a close attack is made against an area containing the machine 
gun, its 25-point strength is added to the defensive strength in the 
area, as long as two men are available to operate the gun. They 
cannot fire their own weapons in the defense, so the gun adds a 
net 23 to the defense of an area. 
 
9.4 Capture of Special Weapons. Due to the difficulty of firing 
an unfamiliar weapon immediately – plus the certainty that the 
commandos would take any opportunity to disable a heavy 
weapon rather than let it fall into enemy hands – the Iranian 
player may not capture special weapons. If a weapon is 
abandoned or all U.S. units in its area are eliminated, remove the 
weapon as well. Since there are no counters for satchel charges, 
they are never eliminated until used. 
 
10. QUIET ATTACKS 
 
The U.S. commandos carried certain quiet weapons. While not 
suitable for a pitched battle, these weapons (i.e. gas grenades, 
silenced firearms) would have been capable of removing a few 
sentries without alarming the rest. Special weapons (Section 9) 
may not be used in a quiet attack! 
 
When the American player attacks an Iranian sentry who has not 
yet been alerted, he may attempt a “quiet” attack. This may be 
either a ranged or a close attack. He rolls on the appropriate CRT, 
but does not add 3 to the roll because his target is “not alert”. 
Instead, he subtracts two from the roll. If the “quiet attack” 

 
 
 
 
 
 
8 of 18 
eliminates all Iranians in the area, no one is alerted! If any 
sentries survive the attack, all other sentries (and any other units 
within 2 areas) are alerted. 
 
Quiet attacks may only be made against sentries – that is, units on 
the road. If you are in an unfamiliar building, it is very hard to 
find and neutralize an opponent without making a certain amount 
of noise. 
 
A quiet attack may not be attempted through either gate. The 
militants aren’t crack troops – but the gate is where they expect 
an attack. 
 
11. AMERICAN CASUALTIES 
 
In normal battle, there will be several wounded for every man 
actually killed. Even in a special operation of this sort, not every 
casualty is KIA. 
 
Whenever U.S. troops or helicopter crewmen are eliminated by 
combat, it is assumed that half of them (round down) are only 
wounded – perhaps too severely to fight, but not too severely to 
walk or to assist other wounded men. Certainly, the U.S. forces 
would have left no wounded men (or even bodies) behind unless 
there was no alternative. Thus, if the U.S. player loses one man, 
he is actually killed. However, if he loses two men at once, one is 
killed and on is only wounded. 
 
Wounded men are added to the “hostage counter” (see Section 
12). If there is no hostage counter in the area, place one there 
and note the wounded men. They are treated like hostages for 
movement and combat purposes. They can no longer fight or 
climb walls, but can otherwise move normally. Example: 7 U.S. 
troops and 3 hostages, in a woods area, are hit by ranged fire 
from 25 men. The die roll modifier is -4 (-2 because Iranians are 
firing, -2 because the defenders are in the woods). The die roll 
against the troops is 4 (a -2 result). The roll against the hostages 
is 2 (a -1 result). One hostage is therefore killed. Two soldier 
units are removed from the board. The hostage counter remains, 
but the hostage record is changed to show that the counter now 
represents two hostages and one wounded soldier. 
 
When a mixed group of hostages and wounded soldiers is attacked 
(in any fashion), losses are always taken from the wounded 
soldiers before any hostages are lost. Hostages and already 
wounded soldiers are not “wounded” again; if eliminated, they are 
dead. 
 
Note, therefore, that an “X” combat result will (a) eliminate all 
hostages and wounded soldiers in the area, (b) kill half the troops 
in the area (rounded up) and (c) leave the rest of those troops 
wounded. 
 
It is not necessary to keep any record of Iranian units eliminated. 
 
12. THE HOSTAGES 
 
Hostages are represented by the 10 numbered “hostage counters”. 
At the beginning of the game, when the Iranian player places the 
hostages, he notes on a separate piece of paper how many 
hostages are represented by each counter. A counter may 
represent any number of hostages or none at all. 
 
Identification of hostages. The four hostage counters that begin 
the game are inverted, along with all the Iranian units. They are 
turned face up when their guards are alerted. However, the U.S. 
player does not find out how many hostages a counter represents 
until he moves a unit into their area. The Iranian player must then 
tell him how many hostages are there, whether he recaptures 
them or not. Later in the game, the Iranian player is entitled to 
know how many hostages (or wounded soldiers) are in an 
American controlled hostage counter whenever Iranian units enter 
its area. 
 
Movement of hostages. Hostages are moved by the player 
controlling them. They move like other units. Freed hostages can 
double move. 
 
The Iranian player may not move any hostage counter until the 
guards with it have been alerted. 
 
Hostage counters may be combined or split up by the player 
controlling them. For instance, if Hostage Counter #6 contains 8 
hostages, the player controlling it may mark two of those hostages 
off, put down a new hostage counter, record that it represents two 
hostages, and move it away. 
 
Rescuing hostages. A hostage counter is controlled by the Iranians 
until there are no Iranian units left in its area. It is then controlled 
by the American player. The Iranians can recapture hostages only 
if they move militant or mob units onto them when no unwounded 
U.S. troops are left in the area. 
 
12.1 Accidental death of hostages. If hostages are in an area 
that comes under fire, they may be killed accidentally. Hostages 
that are stacked with an attacking unit are never killed – only 
hostages in an area that is attacked. 
 
12.11 U.S. attacks. If the U.S. player makes a close attack on an 
area containing hostages, they are not endangered. Concussion 
grenades, gas, and other non-lethal attack agents were carried for 
just this purpose. A U.S. close attack can eliminate militants 
without endangering hostages (or wounded) in the area. 
 
If the U.S. player makes a ranged attack on an area containing 
hostages, follow rule 7.7. The U.S. player must either reduce the 
effectiveness of his fire or risk injuring the hostages. 
 
12.12 Iranian attacks. An Iranian close attack will endanger 
hostages in the area attacked. If the result of the attack is an “X” 
then all noncombatants (hostages and wounded) in the area are 
killed. Half the troops are killed; the other half are wounded and 
automatically captured. However, if the result is not an “X”, no 
noncombatants are killed, even if all U.S. troops in the area are 
lost. Otherwise, no hostages or wounded soldiers are lost. 
 
If the Iranian player makes a ranged attack on an area containing 
hostages or wounded soldiers, he also follows rule 7.7. He has the 
option of treating the hostages as “friendly” (so he can try to 
recapture them) or of attacking normally (and making a second die 
roll against the hostages there). 
 
12.2 Executing the Hostages. The Iranians have constantly 
threatened to execute the hostages if a rescue attempt was made. 
They might do it. 
 
Once an Iranian unit has been alerted, it may attempt to execute 
any hostages in its area. This takes place after Iranian movement; 
it is considered a close attack with automatic success. It only takes 
one unit to execute hostages, but he may not make another attack 
that turn. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
9 of 18 
To attempt an execution, the Iranian player rolls one die, to see if 
the guards will actually shoot the hostages. 
 
On a result of 3 or less, the guards scream imprecations at the 
Americans, but do not execute any hostages that turn. 
 
On a result of 4 or 5, they decide to kill some of the hostages as a 
warning. Roll one die. They kill that many hostages, or all hostages 
in the area – whichever is less. If there are both hostages and 
wounded troops in the area, they shoot troops first. 
 
On a result of 6 or more, they kill all the hostages in the area. 
 
The Iranian player may attempt to execute all the hostages at 
once, or only those in some areas. If he is trying to execute 
hostages in more than one area at once, he rolls separately for 
each area. 
 
Subtract 1 from the die roll if the closest Americans are more than 
2 areas away. 
 
Add 2 to the above roll if the Iranian militants are “extreme 
fanatics” (see Section 2.3, option 3). 
 
If the Iranians execute any hostages (or wounded troops), the 
commandos will react with outrage. For the rest of the game, 
when any U.S. troops fire on Iranians, they add an extra 1 to their 
die roll. This does not apply if hostages or wounded troops die in 
combat – only if they are murdered. 
 
Note that hostages may also be executed as a result of a failed 
attempt to negotiate (see Section 13). This too will cause outrage. 
 
12.3 Captured Americans (new hostages). One of the more 
unpleasant possibilities of the raid was that the Iranians would 
take some of the commandos prisoner. A botched raid could leave 
the Ayatollah with more hostages than he started with! 
 
As described in Section 11, half of the American casualties 
(rounded down) are only wounded. Their unit counters are 
removed from the board, and the wounded soldiers represented 
by a hostage counter. Keep separate track of the number of 
wounded troops and hostages in each counter. 
 
Wounded soldiers cannot fight and are treated exactly like 
hostages for all purposes, with two exceptions: (1) If 
noncombatants are killed for any reason, all wounded troops in the 
area are lost before any hostages are lost; (2) The American 
player gets victory points for each hostage rescued. He neither 
gains nor loses victory points for rescuing wounded troops. The 
Iranian player, of course, gets victory points for any American 
prisoners he can keep. 
 
13. NEGOTIATION 
 
Any U.S. unit(s) may attempt to negotiate with Iranians in an 
adjacent area. They can promise the militants their lives if they will 
lay down their weapons, free their hostages, and leave. If a group 
of Iranians has no hostages, they may still be invited to surrender. 
However, sentries cannot be asked to surrender. 
 
Negotiation takes place before any movement or combat. If the 
U.S. player wants to negotiate, he says so (the Iranian player may 
not open negotiations). He rolls one die. Results are as follows: 
 
On a result of 1 or less, the militants roll one die and shoot that 
many hostages immediately. If they have no hostages, they get 
one free ranged attack (taking place immediately) on any of the 
Americans calling for surrender. 
 
On a 2 or 3, the militants prepare to shoot the hostages. If the 
U.S. player cannot eliminate all militants in that area before the 
next Iranian turn, they will then roll one die and shoot that many 
hostages. (If they have no hostages, they get a free ranged 
attack, as above). 
 
On a 4 or 5, the Iranians get a free, immediate ranged attack on 
the U.S. troops, but do not shoot any hostages. 
 
On a result of 6 or more, all militants in that area surrender. 
Remove all Iranian units in the area. Any hostages there are 
unharmed. 
 
Modifications: 
 
Add 2 to the roll if the Americans took the “Farsi Speaker” option. 
 
Add 1 to the roll if the Americans calling for the surrender 
outnumber all Iranians adjacent to them (in any area) by better 
than 4 to 1. Special weapons and hostages don’t count. 
 
Subtract 2 from the roll if the Iranians being asked to surrender 
outnumber the Americans asking them to surrender. 
 
Subtract 2 if the militants took the “extreme fanaticism” option. 
 
If the Iranians in an area refuse to surrender, the U.S. player must 
attack them at least once before he can call for surrender a second 
time. 
 
If the Iranians in an area have not yet been alerted, an attempt to 
negotiate will automatically alert them. 
 
14. IRANIAN REINFORCEMENTS 
 
The American commandos must complete their mission quickly. 
Within minutes after they are detected, Iranian reinforcements will 
begin to arrive. 
 
The Iranian player begins to get reinforcements on (a) his first 
turn after any American helicopters arrive (whether they land or 
not) or (b) his tenth turn after his sentries are first alerted. If his 
sentries are first alerted on turn 6, for instance, his first 
reinforcements arrive on turn 16. If the Iranian chose the “better 
communications” option, his reinforcements are speeded by three 
turns; if the American chose the “extraordinary diversion” option, 
reinforcements are slowed by four turns – unless, of course, a 
helicopter shows up first. 
 
The Iranian rolls two dice to see what reinforcements he gets, and 
where. Refer to the Iranian Reinforcement Table (Table 4). 
Reinforcements appear in the street; their first move may bring 
them into the adjacent road area. They may attack on the turn 
they appear if an American unit is within range. 
 
Reinforcements, which are listed as appearing in “any street area”, 
may be placed in any street area the Iranian player wishes. 
However, they may not enter the embassy compound except 
through gates or breaches. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
10 of 18 
The Iranian player may roll twice for reinforcements on any turn 
that a U.S. helicopter is hovering over the embassy – see Section 
15.3. 
 
15. MOBS 
 
The Iranian player begins with no mob counters; they are only 
available as reinforcements. A mob counter represents a group of 
20 to 30 yelling, rock-throwing, knife-waving fanatics. A mob 
cannot make ranged attacks of any kind. In close combat, it has 
an attack strength equivalent to 10 soldiers. Its defensive strength 
against a close attack is also 10. 
 
Mobs like to attack – but they dislike being on the receiving end of 
violence. Whenever an Iranian area containing mobs receives a 
combat result of -5 or more (for any reason, whether the Iranians 
were attacking or defending, all mobs in that area immediately 
panic and disappear. However, combat losses of less than 5 men 
do not affect a mob at all. When the American player attacks an 
area containing mobs, all losses are taken by the mobs first. 
Therefore: 
 
An “X” result will still destroy all Iranians in the stack. 
 
A result of -5 or greater will eliminate all mob units but will not 
affect any militants stacked with them. 
 
A result of -4 or less will not affect either the mobs or the 
militants; nothing happens to that stack. Thus, a mob is excellent 
“life insurance” for Iranian units. The militants can direct the mob 
while remaining relatively safe. 
 
15. HELICOPTERS 
 
The U.S. player has eight helicopters for his escape. The helicopter 
counters are numbered 1 through 8, so that players can keep track 
of which helicopters have already come in an taken off, and how 
much damage each one takes. 
 
15.1 Helicopter entry. The U.S. player may bring in his escape 
helicopters in one of two ways: 
 
(1) He may write down, before the game begins, the turns he 
wants his helicopters to come in on, and how many are to appear 
each turn. At the proper turn(s), he shows this to the Iranian 
player. The helicopters then arrive on schedule; the Iranian player 
does not know they’re coming until they appear. 
 
(b) If he does not do this, he may call for the helicopters at any 
time during the game. They appear 5 turns later. The Iranian 
player, of course, then has 5 turns’ warning that they’re coming. 
Example: If the U.S. player called for them during his 10th turn, 
they would appear at the beginning of his 15th turn. He could also 
(for instance) call for 4 helicopters on the 10th turn, call for 2 more 
on the 11th, and call for 2 more on the 12th. The Iranian player 
does not know which option has been taken until the U.S. player 
calls for the helicopters or shows the note to tell him they’re 
arriving. 
 
15.2 Helicopter landing. Helicopters land wherever the U.S. 
player wishes when they appear (he doesn’t have to decide ahead 
of time). They may land in any lawn-type area (light green) or 
parking lot. Each such area has a number in the corner to show 
how many helicopters may occupy it at any one time. For example, 
Lot 1 may only hold one helicopter at a time. 
 
Helicopters may land in an area even if it is occupied by Iranians. 
This is considered a close attack (see section 15.52). It’s a good 
way to lose helicopters. 
 
15.3 Hovering. A helicopter does not have to land immediately. 
Helicopters that do not land may hover over the embassy. 
Hovering has two disadvantages: it attracts attention and it wastes 
fuel. No helicopter may hover for more than 10 turns. After it uses 
up its ten turns of hovering, it must immediately leave play or 
land. If it lands, it my leave play immediately when it takes off. 
 
To indicate that a helicopter is hovering, place it on the black 
“RAIN ON IRAN” logo on the football field. Helicopters placed in 
the green part of the field have landed. 
 
Whenever it is the Iranian’s turn and even one helicopter is 
hovering, he may roll twice for reinforcements. Double 
reinforcements continue as long as any helicopters are hovering. 
 
15.4 Wave-offs. If a helicopter is hovering (or has not yet 
appeared), the U.S. player may “wave it off” at any time, sending 
it away, if he is sure he will not need it. Once a helicopter has 
been waved off, it cannot be recalled. 
 
15.5 Combat involving helicopters. The U.S. helicopters may 
attack or be attacked while they are on the ground. 
 
15.51 Attack strength of helicopters. A helicopter’s door guns 
give it an attack strength of 5. Each commando in a helicopter 
adds 1 to its attack strength, up to a maximum of 5 commandos; 
thus, 10 is the maximum combat strength for a helicopter. A 
helicopter can make ranged attacks against enemies in an 
adjacent area. It can also make close attacks against Iranians who 
entered its own area on a previous turn. When it lands, it may 
close attack (with the door guns only – strength of 5) any Iranian 
units in the area it lands in. 
 
15.52 Attacks against helicopters. If the Iranian player attacks 
a helicopter, the attack is separate from the others in that same 
area. An attack against one helicopter does not affect any other 
units in that area – and vice versa. This is the only instance in 
which several separate attacks of the same kind may be made 
against one area. Example: If there are 3 helicopters and 5 U.S. 
soldiers in the football field, and 40 Iranians in Woods 8, the 
Iranians may make from 1 to 4 attacks. The troops count as one 
target; each helicopter counts as one target. Any U.S. units in a 
helicopter are counted with that helicopter. The Iranians in the 
example could attack with all 40 troops against one helicopter; 
divide and attack with 20 each against two of the helicopters; put 
30 men on one helicopter and the other 10 on the troops... 
whatever they wished. However, no unit may ever attack more 
than once per turn, and no helicopter may undergo more than one 
ranged attack and one close attack each turn. 
 
Ranged attacks against helicopters: Like other ranged attacks, 
these are calculated on the basis of the number of men firing. 
Remember that all Iranian attacks are at -2 on the die roll. When a 
helicopter is attacked, a -1 result puts one “hit” on it. A -2 result 
puts two hits on it, and so forth. Each helicopter counter is 
numbered, so players can keep track of the hits it has taken. 
Accumulated hits reduce a helicopter’s chance to take off (see 
Section 16.13). 
 
Explosion: If a helicopter receives an “X” result, or takes more 
than 5 hits from any single attack, it immediately explodes. 
Remove the helicopter and roll an immediate ranged attack 
(strength of 20) against its occupants, including the crew. If any 

 
 
 
 
 
 
11 of 18 
survive, they are now outside the burning helicopter. They may 
enter another helicopter during their next movement phase, if one 
is in the area. 
 
Close attacks against helicopters: A helicopter’s defensive strength 
against close attacks is the same as its attack strength: 5, plus 1 
for each commando inside it up to a maximum of 5. A successful 
close attack puts hits on a helicopter (or blows it up) just as 
described above. 
 
Troops inside helicopters: Up to 5 commandos may fight from 
inside a helicopter, adding their strength to that of the helicopter 
itself, as described above. Other troops cannot fight while inside a 
helicopter. Mortars and the machine gun cannot be brought into a 
helicopter. 
 
Empty helicopters: The combat strength of a helicopter is reduced 
to zero at any time there are not two crewmen (or troops) inside it 
to man the door guns. A helicopter cannot take off without at least 
two crewmen aboard. If the Iranian player close attacks a totally 
empty helicopter, it is automatically destroyed. The Iranians 
cannot actually capture a helicopter or use the door guns. 
 
15.53 Combat involving flying helicopters. Helicopters are 
armed only with two M-60 door guns each. This would make them 
relatively ineffective if they fired from the air; therefore, they 
would be unlikely to risk it. Neither would they be likely to hover 
low enough to be shot at! For the purposes of this game, then, a 
helicopter may neither attack nor be attacked while it is hovering. 
 
15.6 Helicopter crew. A helicopter has a crew of 5 men. They 
carry both side arms and rifles, but have no commando training. If 
a helicopter is damaged or destroyed, use an inverted 5-man U.S. 
counter to represent its crew. These 5 men move as though they 
were regular troops. If attacked, they count as 5 soldiers for 
defensive purposes. However, they cannot attack. 
 
If a stack of U.S. units containing both commandos and crewmen 
is attacked (in any way), the U.S. player may choose to lose 
whichever units he wishes. 
 
16. EVACUATION 
 
In order to win the game, the U.S. player must get most of his 
units out alive. This can be done in two ways: helicopter 
evacuation or ground evacuation. Helicopter evacuation is 
preferable. 
 
16.1 Helicopter evacuation. Each helicopter can hold up to 30 
Americans (any type) plus its own crew of five. 
 
16.11 Entering helicopters. A helicopter counts as a separate 
area for movement purposes only. Therefore, when a U.S. unit 
and a helicopter are in the same area, it takes one further turn for 
the unit to enter the helicopter. The U.S. player may use his 
double move to have one unit (or stack of units) enter the area 
with a helicopter AND enter that helicopter on the same turn. 
 
16.12 Leaving helicopters. Once inside the helicopter, units 
may leave again if the U.S. player wishes... for instance, to get out 
of a badly damaged helicopter. Commandos in a helicopter may 
also leave it to close attack Iranians in the same area. Leaving a 
helicopter (like entering it) counts as a move. 
 
16.13 Helicopter takeoff. A helicopter may take off on the 
same turn that units enter it. Once a helicopter takes off, it may 
escape immediately or go to the “hover” area. If it hovers, it must 
remain hovering for at least one turn; it may then (if the U.S. 
player wishes) land again in any area to pick up or drop off units. 
Remember that each helicopter has a ten-turn limit on the total 
time it can hover. 
 
The disadvantage in landing again after takeoff is that a helicopter 
may malfunction. Takeoffs are NEVER certain. 
 
Any time a helicopter is ready to take off, the American player rolls 
two dice. On a result of 4 or better, the helicopter takes off. 
However, the American must subtract 1 from his roll for every hit 
the helicopter has taken. If it has taken 3 hits, for instance, it must 
roll a 7 or better. If it has taken more than 8 hits, it can’t possibly 
take off. 
 
Once a helicopter fails its roll, it is crippled for the rest of the 
game. There’s no time to repair it! All its passengers, and its five 
crewmen, may leave it on the next turn. (The only reason to stay 
inside would be for the crew to man the door gun). Note that it 
will take them one turn to get out of the helicopter and one more 
turn to get into another one in the same area (if there’s one 
there). 
 
Note: This rule means that there is a very good chance that, even 
if the Iranians never shoot at the helicopters at all, at least one of 
them will fail. 
 
16.2 Ground evacuation. American units may, at any time, 
attempt to escape the embassy on the ground. Any U.S. units left 
after the last helicopter takes off (or malfunctions) will have to 
attempt a ground evacuation. 
 
Any American unit which can move off the map on the ground 
(that is, outward from a street area) has escaped. These men 
would have been picked up by agents outside and spirited off to 
hideouts within Teheran. In order to reach the street, units must 
leave the embassy grounds. They can do this by exiting through a 
gate or by going out a breach. If the commandos still have some 
satchel charges left, they can create a new breach wherever they 
need it. Commando units and helicopter crew may also leave by 
climbing over the wall. However, no more than ten men may climb 
the wall in any one area each turn. Hostages and wounded troops 
cannot climb the wall at all. 
 
Since ground escape is riskier than an airlift, leaving the possibility 
of recapture within Iran, the U.S. player loses points for units that 
make a ground escape. However, ground escape is far better than 
capture or death! 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
12 of 18 
17. ENDING THE GAME 
 
The game ends when all U.S. units have been killed, captured, or 
left the map. At that time, both players determine victory points. 
The player with the higher number of points is the winner; the 
degree of “spread” determines the magnitude of the victory. Note, 
though, it is possible for both players to lose in absolute terms. If 
the American player frees half the hostages but the other half are 
killed, neither player can be said to have won much of a victory. 
 
American victory points: 
+10 for each hostage rescued. 
-2 for each hostage killed. 
-2 for each commando or crewman killed. 
-10 for each commando or crewman captured. 
 
Wounded soldiers and crewmen do not affect victory. 
 
Iranian victory points: 
+10 for each hostage held at the end of the game (including new 
hostages). 
+2 for each American commando or crewman killed. 
 
The Iranians get no victory points for hostages killed in battle or 
executed. 
Neither player gets victory points for Iranian units killed. 
 
The American player has mounted a very successful operation if he 
scores 400 or more points (500 would be perfect). 
250-399 indicates a marginally successful mission. 
Under 250 indicates failure. 
Under 100 is a disastrous failure. 
 
If the Iranian player scores more than 500 points, his position is 
better than it was before the raid. 
400 or more victory points indicates a very successful defense. 
250-399 points indicates a marginally successful defense. 
Under 250 points indicates a loss of face. 
100 or fewer points represents total humiliation in the eyes of the 
world. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
13 of 18 
18. CHARTS AND TABLES 
 
Table 1: Entry By Stealth – Roll 2 Dice 
1-5 men entered that turn: 
3 or better 
6-10 men entered that turn: 
4 or better 
11-15 men entered that turn: 
5 or better 
16-20 men entered that turn: 
6 or better 
21-30 men entered that turn: 
8 or better 
31-40 men entered that turn: 
10 or better 
41 or more men entered that turn: 
11 or better 
 
Entry by Stealth Modifications: 
 
-2 If .50 Caliber machine gun brought in by stealth this turn. 
-1 For each Mortar brought in by stealth this turn. 
-4 If there are any Sentries in any area entered this turn. 
 
If the U.S. player misses his roll (i.e. rolls less than the number 
specified), all Iranian sentries are immediately alerted. If the sentries 
have previously been alerted, there is no further need to use this 
table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Iranian Reinforcements – Roll 2 Dice 
15 men in any street area 
 
Reinforcements which 
appear in “any street 
area” may be placed 
in any street the 
Iranian player wishes. 
However, they may 
only enter the 
compound through 
gates or breaches. 
10 men in any street area 
5 men in any street area 
One mob in any street area 
10 men at main gate (Street 12) 
No reinforcements 
One mob at main gate (Street 12) 
5 men at rear gate (Street 1) 
10 men at rear gate (Street 1) 
One mob at rear gate (Street 1) 
Two mobs in any street area 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
14 of 18 
 
Table 2: RANGED COMBAT – Roll 1 Die 
Number of units firing (plus strength of Special Weapons) 
Die 
Roll 
1-2 
3-5 
6-10 
11-15 
16-20 
21-30 
31+ 
-3 
-3 
6+ 
-12 
 
Ranged combat within a building counts as only 10 men firing, even 
if more than 10 actually attack. See Section 7.6. 
 
Table 3: CLOSE ATTACK – Roll 1 Die 
Ratio of attacker’s strength to defender’s strength 
Die 
Roll 
1-3 
1-2 
1-1 
2-1 
3-1 
4-1 + 
-10/NE 
-5/-1 
-3/-5 
-3/-5 
X/-1 
-5/-2 
-2/-5 
-2/-10 
X/-1 
-2/-1 
-1/-5 
-2/-10 
-2/-1 
-1/-3 
NE/-5 
-1/-1 
-1/-5 
NE/-5 
6+ 
-1/-1 
 
The result to the LEFT of the slash (/) is applied to the attacker. The 
result to the RIGHT of the slash (/) is applied to the defender. 
 
 
Modifications: 
Apply these modifications to ALL combats (ranged OR close) 
Iranian player attacks 
Defenders in Woods, Building or Roof Area 
Defenders are above ALL attacking units 
+3 
Iranian defenders and NONE have yet been alerted (but see “Quiet Attack” modifier, below) 
“Quiet Attack” attempted against unalerted Iranian Sentries (supercedes the +3 modifier, above) 
+1 
Add only to U.S. attacking combat die rolls if Iranians have executed any hostages 
 
 
All modifications are cumulative. For example, if the Iranian player attacks a U.S. unit in the woods, 
subtract 4 from his roll! A modified die roll of more than 6 counts as 6. 
 
 
 
Meaning of symbols (for both combat tables): 
“NE” means there is no effect on the units attacked. 
“X” means that all units attacked are eliminated. 
If a number is shown, the attacker/defender loses that many units – but never more than 
the number of units he has in the area. Remove all eliminated units from play. 
 
 
Half of the U.S. Troops eliminated by any combat (round down) are considered wounded, and are 
shown by a hostage counter (see Section 12.3). 
 
 
For effects of combat on noncombatants (hostages and wounded soldiers), see Sections 7.7 and 12.1. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
15 of 18 
PLAYER AID SHEET 
 
Game Turn 
 
Hostage Counters 
Hostages 
Wounded 
Air Crew 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Helicopter Chart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Helicopter 
Scheduled 
Arrival Turn 
Called on 
Turn # 
Arrival 
Turn # 
Total Turns Hovering 
(max=10) 
Hits 
Disabled 
(Y/N) 
Out of 
Play (Y/N) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Option #: ______ Iranian Option #: ______ 
 
 
Iranian Sentries Alerted on Turn #: _________ 
(Reinforcements begin 10th turn after alert) 
(Hostages can be taken out of compound 10th turn after alert) 
 
 
Iranian Reinforcements Begin on Turn #: ________ 
(Roll twice for reinforcements when helicopters hovering) 
 
 
Hostages Killed/Executed: ______________________________ 
 
____________________________________________________ 
(Executing hostages causes Commando "outrage" +1) 
 
 
Commandos/Crew Killed: _______________________________ 
 
____________________________________________________ 
 
 
Satchel Charges Used: _________________________________ 
 
Iranian VP 
Schedule 
VP's 
Each 
Total 
Pts 
Hostages Held 
 
+10 
 
Commando/Crew 
Killed 
 
+2 
 
Total Points 
 
 
 
US VP Schedule 
VP's 
Each 
Total 
Pts 
Hostages Rescued 
 
+10 
 
Hostages Killed 
 
 
Command/Crew Killed 
 
 
Command/Crew Captured 
 
 
Total Points 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
16 of 18 
19. ABOUT THIS GAME 
 
“It was risky and we knew it, but it had a good chance of success 
and America had the courage to try.” 
Admiral James L. Holloway, III, USN (Ret.) 
Chairman, Special Operations Review Group 
Rescue Mission Report, August 1980 
 
I suppose RAID ON IRAN is something of a political statement. 
When I first heard about the rescue attempt, I was proud – as an 
American – that we had finally done something. And I was 
grieved that we had failed, and that eight of our men had died 
trying. But I was also very curious. Could the raid have 
succeeded if it had gone in? 
That’s exactly the kind of question that a simulation game is 
supposed to answer… so I got to work. Now, six months later, I 
think I have my answer – the same one the mission planners had. 
It was terribly risky… but it could have worked. They thought it 
was worth trying. For the record, so do I. 
RAID ON IRAN then, is a wargame about a mission that might 
have succeeded… a look at “alternate history.” And in its small 
way, it’s a tribute to the eight crewmen who gave their lives in 
Iran. 
This is probably a good point to mention the scholarship fund 
set up by the rescue team members for the children of those eight 
men. Contributions can be sent to the Colonel Arthur D. Simons 
Memorial Fund, c/o Lt. Gen. Leroy J. Manor, 507 Magnolia Court, 
Destin, FL 32541. Part of the income from RAID ON IRAN will go 
to that fund. I think it’s a very good cause. 
 
Research 
The biggest hurdle to be crossed in designing RAID ON IRAN 
was this: Just what was supposed to happen, and what really did 
happen? A good deal of this is still highly classified. The problem 
was to get enough information to design a decent simulation – 
without compromising any further rescue attempt. (The idea of a 
security leak through a wargame may sound funny – but stranger 
things have happened.) 
In many cases, a careful sifting of journalistic accounts 
provided adequate information – data already in the public 
domain. In other cases, exact information proved to be 
unnecessary. (Exact details of the commandos’ training and 
armaments, for example, proved to be unneeded in the final 
combat system.) And in a few cases, we deliberately fudged 
things a little bit – just in case. The “area movement” system, for 
example, is very playable and gives good results. But the final 
reason for choosing it was the fact that the U.S. government 
considers embassy layouts and floor plans to be classified. We 
could have gone with a much more precise map; we chose to 
abstract it instead. (Granted, the Iranians already know what the 
embassy looks like. But we’re not in the business of telling the 
government what to de-classify.) There are a couple of other 
examples, which I won’t go into for obvious reasons. 
On the whole, I feel this is a good general simulation of the 
rescue attempt. Precise details – no. A good guide to the course 
of the action, pointing out logical tactics for both sides – yes. 
 
Game Balance 
RAID ON IRAN is a fairly well-balanced game. Assuming equal 
expertise on the part of the players, the victory conditions give 
them an equal chance to win. As in the actual mission, of course, 
luck is an important factor. The number of die rolls in the game 
means that luck ought to “average out” – but a bad roll at a crucial 
moment can force a player to re-think his whole plan. 
Fortunately, it was possible to achieve this balance without 
distorting reality a great deal. Once tentative combat values had 
been assigned to all units, and CRTs drafted, it was found that a 
force of about 120 militants made for a balanced game. Since this 
number falls close to the best estimates of their strength, we went 
with it. 
Obviously, balance will be affected by the players’ choices of 
special advantages. This was intentional. There are enough 
combinations of special advantages to allow players to run through 
dozens of games without getting “stale”. Even so, they do not 
exhaust the possibilities in a special operation of this type. 
The “Sauce for the Goose” scenario is very loosely balanced. 
If Khomeini is found quickly, the U.S. player should win; if he 
remains concealed very long, the Iranian should win. It’s a fifteen 
minute diversion rather than a serious simulation. 
 
Optional Rules 
The serious wargamer will quickly add his own interpretations 
and rules to any game he likes. Three suggestions for optional 
RAID ON IRAN rules: 
(1) Hidden movement. Allow the U.S. player to keep each of 
his units face down until it is first fired on by Iranian units. 
(2) What if some of the helicopters had malfunctioned before 
the assault? Can the American player make it if he starts with 
seven helicopters? Six? 
(3) The helicopters might have carried heavier weapons or 
even miniguns. A minigun would decrease the passenger 
capability of a helicopter by at least 5, due to its ammunition 
requirements, but could fire with even more effectiveness than the 
.50-caliber machine gun. If the U.S. player has even one minigun, 
the game will be unbalanced unless the Iranian force is greatly 
increased. 
 
Hints for Play 
American Tactics: The American player’s chief advantage is 
surprise. He must use it. If he fails to act decisively to secure his 
hostages and escape route, he will be overwhelmed. 
There is no “best” type of entry; each of the three methods 
has its advantages. In most cases, combining two types of entry, 
or even all three, will prove profitable. The longer it is before the 
Iranians are alerted, the better! The U.S. player will only have a 
few chances to fire at unalerted units with his +3 die roll 
advantage; he should make the most of them. If the Iranian puts 
hostages on the first floor of a building – or if the first floor is 
occupied only by dummies – the U.S. player may get to attack 
hostage guards before they’re alerted! 
Once the hostages have been secured, the American player 
must secure a helicopter landing area and get out. Always try to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
17 of 18 
have a back-up helicopter available; a takeoff malfunction at the 
wrong time can lead to disaster. 
Iranian Tactics: The Iranian player begins in a very bad 
position: he does not know where most of his units are, he can 
move none of his units, and he must wait to respond to the 
American attack. The longer the game runs, the more the balance 
swings to the Iranian side. 
If the American player does not immediately recapture all the 
hostages, the Iranian should try to get his remaining prisoners out 
of the embassy as soon as the rules allow. Often this is best 
accomplished by dividing them into small groups, each with one or 
two militants as escorts. Once the hostage guards are alerted, the 
Iranian can also put down “dummy” hostage counters with no 
hostages in them, to further confuse the rescuers. 
When the helicopters land, the Iranian player should do his 
best to cripple them. A few damaged helicopters will make a U.S. 
victory almost impossible. 
Just as in the actual situation, the Iranians can benefit more 
by threatening to shoot the hostages than by actually harming 
them. Dead hostages are worth nothing to the Iranian player, and 
give ht U.S. a further military advantage. But the threat to kill 
them may force the American player to be more cautious. 
On problem the Iranian can do little about is his lack of 
“command control”. He doesn’t know where all his units are 
stationed; he can’t alert them easily; they may shoot hostages 
without orders, refuse to shoot them when ordered to do so, or 
even surrender to the Americans! 
 
Components 
The components of RAID ON IRAN represent an experiment. 
By producing the map/rules/etc. in one sheet, and leaving the 
rules and counter cutting to the purchaser, we were able to afford 
more and better components than other games in the same price 
range. Your comments on this would be appreciated. 
I hope you find RAID ON IRAN as interesting to play as I found it 
to design. 
-Steve Jackson 
 
20. HISTORICAL NOTES 
 
Background 
On November 4, 1979, a large group of Iranian “students” 
stormed the American embassy in Teheran, the capital of Iran. 
Essentially the whole embassy staff was taken hostage. Within the 
next few weeks, those hostages who were not American citizens, 
and a few Americans, were released. The others, numbering 53 
American citizens, remained and present; negotiations for their 
release lead nowhere. On the date of the attempted rescue, the 
Iranians still held 53 hostages; 50 within the embassy grounds, 
and three in the Iranian foreign ministry. 
 
The Rescue Plan 
Planning for a rescue mission began almost immediately after the 
embassy was first seized, though it ministrations spokesman 
deliberately played down the “military option”. Planning and 
training continued for the next five months. On April 16, the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff and President Carter approved a mission plan to be 
executed beginning April 24. 
The mission was to begin with the liftoff of eight giant helicopters 
from the aircraft carrier Nimitz, were they had been held in 
readiness for months. From the carrier’s post in the Arabian Sea, 
the helicopters faced a night journey of nearly 600 nautical miles. 
Their first destination was a spot in Iran’s Great Salt Desert, code 
named “Desert One”. It was here that the helicopters would 
rendezvous with six C–130 transports. Flying by a long and 
indirect route, the C–130s would bring fuel, equipment, and the 
commando team that would make the actual ground assault. 
After refueling, the helicopters were to take the commandos to a 
spot in the mountains near Tehran. The C-130s would head for a 
second desert base, somewhere in Western Iran. 
During the daylight hours, the commandos would enter Tehran by 
ground transportation. The actual assault on the embassy would 
have taken place some 24 hours after the landing at desert one. 
With the hostages safely in American hands, the helicopters would 
land within the embassy grounds and “extract” all Americans. 
The helicopters would then have joined the C–130s at the second 
desert base, and all American aircraft and personnel would have 
left Iran. 
The original entry into Iranian airspace was to depend on stealth. 
(In fact it appears that the Iranian forces had no inkling that 
American aircraft had been in the area until the U.S. 
announcement was made the next day). For the escape from the 
embassy, air cover would have been necessary in case the Iranian 
Air Force managed to scramble any of its U.S.-built jets. For 
obvious reasons, details of the planned air cover could have not 
been made public. Certainly the United States could have put well 
over hundred jet fighters into the Iranians skies. AC-130 modified 
transports, heavily equipped for air to ground attack, might also 
have been available for close support during the extraction. For 
now, this aspect of the rescue plan must remain speculative. 
 
The Commandos 
The United States assault team consisted of 90 men, volunteers 
from all branches of the service. They had been in training for this 
specific mission for 5 ½ months-since a few days after the 
embassy was first taken. They were armed with a great variety of 
weapons. An observer on the scene no doubt would have seen M-
16 automatic rifles, M-60 light machine guns, Uzi submachine 
guns, grenade launchers with a great variety of grenades, light 
antitank weapons, and various silenced and non-lethal weapons. 
Advanced Communications Equipment and night vision gear are 
also in near certainty. The rescue team was in all respects an elite 
unit. 
 
The Infiltrators 
The commandos would have been assisted by a large group of 
agents already in place-CIA and Special Forces men, and Iranians 
not in sympathy with Khomeini. While these men might have 
participated in the assault, it is far likelier that they would have 
been responsible for diversion area tactics elsewhere, providing 
ground getaway and hiding places if needed, and surveillance from 
the tall buildings overlooking the compound. Infiltrators would 
probably also have been responsible for the rescue of the three 
hostages held at the Foreign Ministry. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
18 of 18 
 
The Helicopters 
Eight RH–53D helicopters were used in the mission. The R.H. – 53 
D he’s a special purpose of variant of the Sikorsky “Sea Stallion” - 
the largest American made helicopter. About 74 feet long, with an 
empty weight of better than 16 tons and as top speed of nearly 
200 miles per hour and a range of well over 1000 miles. It 
requires three crewmen (not including door gunners). In some 
configurations it can carry over 15 men; for the rescue mission, a 
load of some 30 men per helicopter seems more likely. 
The Sea Stallion is generally considered for more reliable than its 
performance on the rescue mission would seem to indicate. The 
helicopters mechanical difficulties may have been largely due to 
inadequate maintenance while on the Nimitz-and the sheer bad 
luck. 
 
The Embassy Compound 
The American embassy in Tehran is not a single building, but a 27 
acre enclave near the heart the city. Its eastern side is park like, 
with few buildings. Its western side is more heavily built up. (The 
embassy grounds are not actually rectangular in shape; they are a 
sort of reversed L shape. The areas on the east side of the map or 
smaller to represent this properly.) The 50 hostages at the 
embassy were thought to be divided between Residence and the 
Chancellery. A wall 10 to 12 feet high completely surrounds the 
embassy. While not un-climbable, it would probably defeat the 
untrained intruder. 
 
The Militants 
The “students” who occupy the embassy acknowledge no authority 
except the spiritual leadership (whenever that may mean) of the 
Ayatollah Khomeini. They appear to be devout Shiite Muslim and 
the fanatical the anti American. They are organized in a 
paramilitary fashion. Observers have described them as 
disorganized (though no more so than the rest of Iranian Society 
at present) but with good morale. Estimates of their numbers 
have ranged from under 90 to 150. 
The militants are armed with a variety of weapons (which they 
have been eager to display to newsmen), including AK–47s, West 
German G–3 automatic rifles, Uzis, and M-3 grease guns. The 
firepower and range of the average militant would theoretically be 
greater than that of an M-16 armed commando, and their Shiite 
beliefs would encourage them to welcome death in battle. 
However, their training and discipline would be greatly inferior to 
that of even an ordinary military unit. 
 
The Iranian Military 
The Iranian army and Air Force have lost much of their leadership 
in recent months, but still remain viable fighting forces - as witness 
the Iran-Iraq conflict that began in September 1980. Still, they 
would probably have been incapable of acting quickly enough to 
affect the raiders. None of Iran’s F-4 Phantoms are night 
equipped. 
Although there are several military/police installations within 82 
kilometer radius of the embassy, the United States planners 
believe that effective ground reaction would also be too slow to 
catch the commandos. Again, diversions were almost certain to be 
arranged. 
 
The Mobs 
The ordinary Iranian populace - many of whom have been 
conditioned to hate everything American - could probably fill the 
streets of Tehran in an hour, armed with antique firearms, swords, 
and rocks. As combat units, they would be effective only in mass. 
 
The Outcome 
The American Force never made it past Desert One. Of the eight 
helicopters flying in, one (number six) malfunctioned some 2 hours 
after leaving the Nimitz. The crew landed, verified the 
malfunction, an abandoned the aircraft. They were picked up by 
another of the helicopters. Some 2 hours later, helicopter five 
experienced a failure of several navigational instruments while 
flying through a dust cloud. Its pilot turned around and returned 
to the Nimitz. 
After landing at desert one, helicopter two was founded to be 
suffering from a hydraulic failure which could not be repaired with 
the time and materials available. This brought the number of 
operational helicopters down to five - one of fewer than the 
mission planners had felt necessary. Advised of this by radio, 
President Carter ordered the mission terminated.