RULEBOOK
TM

In 
, you must build the stoutest Longship 
and gather the bravest Viking crew, then set sail 
to discover the world! Battle horrible monsters, 
collect and trade valuable goods, and be ready 
to do whatever is necessary to acquire 
golden riches and bring glory upon 
your name! 
OVERVIEW AND GOAL 
OF THE GAME
Over the course of four Voyages, prepare your crew and steer 
your Longship to the best locations to discover the most 
treasure and earn the greatest glory.
Another Viking may have his sights set on the same location 
as you. Don't hesitate to order your Vikings to attack his ship 
and try to make him run away. Only one of you can leave with 
the treasures you've discovered!
The player with the most Glory points at the end of the 
fourth Voyage wins the game. 
GAME ELEMENTS
The bow displays 
the player’s color.
The stern ends the 
You can place Voyage 
tiles on the 5 middle 
spaces.
You can place 
a single Viking 
pawn on each 
Shield space.
4 Longship boards
Longship boards represent the players’ Longships. 
Each board shows the following parts: 
 4 Longship markers
 Longship markers come in four colors, 
corresponding to the colors of the Longship 
boards. They track each player’s progress on 
the World board. 
 
 40 Viking pawns 
 Viking pawns 
represent the Vikings you can 
recruit during your Voyages. They allow you to 
fight other players and brave terrible monsters.
 20 Coins 
Coins represent Glory points equal to the value 
shown on them. A value-6 Coin would give you 
6 Glory points at the end of the game, a value-3 
Coin gives 3 Glory points, and a value-1 Coin 
gives 1 Glory point.

Starting 
positions
Voyage tile 
spaces
Harbor tile 
space
 Villages
Viking pawn 
reserves
 Arrows that 
show the 
direction of 
Navigation
1 World board
The World board represents the world you are exploring during 
the four Voyages.
 
 9 Harbor tiles 
 
Each Harbor tile shows a different condition that 
awards victory points to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd players who 
can best fulfill it. The symbol on the tile shows 
what condition the players need to meet.
 
One of the Harbor tiles 
 has no specific 
condition. It is always (and only) used for the 
first Voyage.
64 Voyage tiles 
 
Voyage tiles represent all the different things you might 
encounter during your Voyage. These tiles allow you to 
accomplish heroic feats during the game (see pages 10 
and 11 for more details).
IMPROVE YOUR LONGSHIP 
Weapon, Sail, and Mjöllnir tiles
Place these tiles on the 
5 middle spaces of your 
GAIN GLORY POINTS 
Goods and Pennant tiles
Place these tiles on the 5 middle 
spaces of your Longship board.
GAIN GLORY POINTS 
BY COLLECTING 
Rune tiles
Place these tiles next to your 
SELL GOODS
Port tiles
Place these tiles next to your 
PASS AN EVENT
Visit and Pillage tiles
These tiles remain on the 
World board. You can never 
stop on these tiles.
FIGHT A MONSTER 
Monster tiles
 These tiles remain on the World board as 
long as the Monster is undefeated. You can 
never stop on these tiles.
Condition

SETUP
For a two-player game, changes for setup 
are described on page 12, in the “Variant for 
2 Players” section.

1st
2nd
3rd
4th
 
> Place the World board 
 in the middle of the table.
> Each player chooses a Longship board 
, takes the Longship marker of the 
matching color the matching color, and places both in front of them. 
> Place the Viking pawns 
 in the middle of the World board. 
> Pile the Coins 
 into one Reserve.
> Sort the Voyage tiles 
 according to their backs (1, 2, 3, and 4) to form face-
down stacks. Set the stacks near the World board. 
> Shuffle the Voyage 1 tiles 
 and place them face up on the designated spaces 
of the World board, beginning with the space immediately after the Harbor space 
and following the direction of the arrows on the board. 
> Take the Harbor tile 
 and place it on the Harbor space on the board 
.
> Shuffle the other Harbor tiles. Place one face up next to each stack of Voyage 
tiles 
. Return the remaining Harbor tiles to the box: they will not be used 
this game. 
> Choose the starting player randomly. Starting with this player and going 
clockwise, each player places their Longship marker 
 on the starting spaces 
of the World board, going from 4 to 1. For example in a 3 player game, the first 
player will be on starting place 3 (see on the left page).
> Starting with the first player and going clockwise, take the number of Viking 
pawns 
 indicated on the table below and place them on your Longship board. 
Place each Viking on a different Shield space. Each Shield space can only hold a 
single Viking. 
> Finally, place as many Viking pawns as there are players in each of the Villages 
 (this helps remind players to take them when they pass over a Village) and 
3 Viking pawns 
 on the “Visit” Voyage tile. 
. 

GAMEPLAY
The game plays over 4 Voyages. During each Voyage, you will set sail in 
your Longship from your starting position, and continue until you reach 
the Harbor tile again. Turn by turn, you'll move around the World board, 
stopping on the tile you want to try to claim.
Summary of a Voyage
A voyage continues over several consecutive turns, until all of the players 
have returned to the Harbor tile. Turn order is not determined by where 
you sit at the table. Instead, the owner of the Longship marker furthest 
back (going clockwise) is always the player who takes the next turn. 
Therefore, the turn order can change each round. You might even take 
multiple turns in a row!
At the start of a Voyage, the Longship marker on the "4" space is the 
furthest behind (on the 3 for a 2 or 3 player).
△Overview of a turn
A turn has two phases  : 
( Take a Voyage tile, ( Navigate. 
( Phase 1 - Take a Voyage tile
At the beginning of your 
turn, take the Voyage tile 
your Longship marker is in 
front of and place it in its 
corresponding space (on or 
next to your Longship board): 
> Weapon, Sail, Mjöllnir, Pennant, and Goods tiles are placed on any of 
the five middle spaces of your Longship board. When you take one of these 
tiles, you may place it on any empty space or discard a tile that was already 
on your Longship and replace it with your new tile. You can also immediately 
discard your newly acquired tile without placing it on your Longship. However, 
any discarded tile is removed from the game and doesn’t count toward your 
score.
 > Rune tiles are 
placed next to 
your Longship 
board and do not 
take up space on 
your Longship. 
> Port tiles are placed next to your Longship board and immediately 
allow you to sell 1 or 2 Goods 
 on your Longship and also recruit 1 
Viking. Goods sold this way are placed next to your Longship board 
and free up 1 or 2 middle spaces on your Longship. You may only sell 
immediately after taking a Port tile. You cannot go back and use the Port 
later, even if you decided not to sell when you took it. 
( Phase 2 - Navigate
During this phase, you must move your Longship marker. You must 
Navigate by following the direction of the arrows printed on the board. 
You may stop on any Voyage tile, as long as you follow the Rules of 
Navigation. 
 During your first turn at the start 
of each Voyage, skip this step and 
go straight to the Navigate phase. 
There is no Voyage tile to take.
You can move Vikings in your crew from one 
Shield to another and reorganize the Voyage 
tiles on your Longship at any time.
In this example, the Blue player is furthest behind going 
clockwise, so he is the active player.
EXAMPLE
c
e
d
f
b
a
> He may then move to spaces(a), 
(b) or (g) without fighting, or spaces 
(c) or (d) by fighting. He cannot land 
on spaces (e) or (f), as no Longship 
can ever land on Passage spaces (see 
Navigation Rule 
).
> He takes the AXE tile his Longship is 
on and places it on his Longship 1 .
> Then he discards the WOOD and 
MONSTER tiles that are between 
him and the next player 2 (see 
Navigation Rule 
).
g

Rules of Navigation
Discard all Voyage tiles between you and 
the next player in front of you
First of all, discard all the Voyage tiles that are currently 
between you and the next player in front of you on the World 
board. These tiles are removed from the game and, therefore, 
you cannot choose to stop in front of them: you must catch up to 
the other players before choosing your next Voyage tile.
Navigate to the tile you want to visit next
 
After discarding any Voyage tiles you are required to, Navigate 
by moving your Longship marker, following the arrows printed 
on the board. You can travel any distance, passing by as many 
Voyage tiles as you wish. You can stop in front of any Weapon, Sail, 
Mjöllnir, Pennant, Goods, Rune, or Port tile still on the board. 
You can either stop in front of a tile before you reach the 
Passage 
, or Navigate past these locations and stop in 
front of a tile on the other side of the Passage. But, if you pass in 
front of a Monster, you must fight (see page 9)!
On any turn, you can decide to Navigate the rest of the way in 
one go and return to the Harbor tile. If you do so, place your 
Longship on the smallest available number shown on the 
starting spaces. You don't get to take any more turns during 
this Voyage, however, 
which continues until all 
the other players have 
docked their Longship in 
the Harbor also. 
If you stop in front of 
an empty Voyage tile, 
meaning one without 
another Longship marker, 
your turn ends. If you stop in front of a Voyage tile that already 
has a Longship marker, you must begin Combat (you must have 
at least 1 Viking to do so).
You never take a Voyage tile when 
you end your Navigation. You 
only take a Navigation tile at the 
beginning of your turn.
At the start of a Voyage, only the last player to leave 
their starting position in the Harbor must catch up 
to the nearest Longship token. They must discard the 
Voyage tiles between them and the closest player before 
Navigating. This mean that in a four-player game, the 
first three players don't need to catch up to the nearest 
player, since they start off on the same space (the 
Harbor) as at least one other player.

△Fighting an opponent
If you Navigate to a tile that already has a Longship on it, you must 
immediately fight the other Viking crew.
 > To begin Combat, you must send 1 Viking from your crew to fight. In 
other words, you must discard one Viking pawn from your Longship and 
place it in the Viking reserve on the World board. If you don’t have any 
Vikings on your Longship, you cannot begin Combat, and therefore cannot 
stop on a tile that is already occupied. 
 > Your opponent now must choose to Retaliate or Flee to a different 
Voyage tile.
RETALIATE
To Retaliate, your opponent must send 2 Vikings into combat (by discarding 
them). Then it's your turn to Retaliate or Flee. Each time you Retaliate, you 
must discard as many Vikings as your opponent did plus one. So, your first 
Retaliation would require you to discard 3 Vikings from your Longship.
If you do not want to or cannot Retaliate, you must Flee.
FLEE 
If you Flee, you must immediately leave the tile you are on without taking 
this tile or discarding any others. Simply move your Longship to one of the 
tiles in front of you. You can trigger another combat by stopping on a tile 
that is already occupied, if you have at least 1 Viking in your crew. 
Continuing the last example, it's still the Blue player's 
turn. He moves to the same tile as the Green player. 
This triggers a fight 1 .
EXAMPLE
A > Blue discards 1 Viking.
B > Green wants to stay and 
discards 2 Vikings.
C > Blue stands his ground and 
discards 3 more Vikings.
D > Green cannot keep up 
and must move forward to 
another space (he has 1 Viking 
remaining and may trigger 
another combat).
During Combat, players take turns discarding 1 
Viking, then 2 Vikings, then 3 Vikings, then 4 Vikings, 
etc. to stay in Combat. You may never discard more 
Vikings than necessary. 

△Passing by a Village, Visit, or Pillage tile 
You cannot stop on a Village, or on Visit or Pillage tiles. Instead, each time 
your Longship marker passes by one of these spaces, you take whatever 
is shown there. (see p.10 "Clarifications of Voyage Tiles").
△Fighting Monsters
When you pass by a Monster tile, you have a choice between Sacrificing 
a Viking to the Monster so it lets you pass or Fighting the Monster 
discarding a number of Vikings from your Longship equal to the 
Monster's strength (the number shown on the Monster tile). In either 
case, you cannot stop on this tile and must Navigate past it. 
If you have Weapons on your Longship, the Monster’s strength is 
reduced by 1 for each simple Weapon and by 2 for each double 
Weapon. 
If you want to pass by the Monster without fighting it, you must 
Sacrifice 1 Viking (if you have any) and place it in the Reserve. If you 
have no Vikings, nothing happen.
If you Fight the Monster, you must discard Vikings from your Longship 
equal to the strength of the Monster, reduced by any Weapons you have 
(return them to the reserve). Then, you immediately take the defeated 
Monster tile and place it next to your Longship board. At the end of 
the game, you will gain Glory points equal to the initial strength of 
the Monster (as shown on the tile). Finally, since you cannot end your 
movement on a Monster or an empty space, you must complete your 
Navigation as normal.
End of the Turn
Your turns ends as soon as you end your Navigation on an empty Voyage 
tile (or back at the Harbor tile), after resolving any Combats and possible 
bonuses given by Village spaces or Visit or Pillage tiles. The player whose 
Longship marker is furthest behind on the World board becomes the next 
active player. It’s possible that this means you play another turn.
End of the Voyage
Each Voyage ends when all players’ Longship markers have reached the 
Harbor tile and are lined up on the starting spaces. Each player takes a 
Viking from the reserve for each Sail on their Longship.
The player who best fulfills the condition on the Harbor tile (see p. 
12) takes a 6-value coin from the reserve. The 2nd best player takes a 
3-value coin, and the 3rd best player gets a 1-value coin. The 4th player 
doesn't gain anything.
If there’s a tie between players, the player who reached the Harbor tile 
first breaks the tie (the player whose Longship marker is on the starting 
position with the smaller number).
After completing the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Voyages, begin a new Voyage (see 
below).
At the end of the 4th Voyage, the game ends (see p. 10).
 △Begin a New Voyage
> Shuffle the Voyage tiles for the next Voyage (in increasing order) 
and place them face up on the outlined spaces on the World board, 
starting with the space after the Harbor tile and going clockwise.
> Place coins on Pillage tiles and Vikings on Visit tiles as illustrated 
on each tile. 
> Replace the Harbor tile with the one set aside with this round’s 
Voyage tiles. 
> Finally, place a number of Viking pawns on the Village spaces equal 
to the number of players.
A new Voyage may now begin. The player who reached the Harbor last is 
the active player and takes the first turn.
If you recruit a Viking and don't have any 
empty Shields on your Ship, discard the Viking 
and put it back in the Reserve.

Simple Mjöllnir  
This tile gives you 1 
Glory point per Viking 
on your Longship at 
the end of the game.
Double Mjöllnir  
This tile gives you 
2 Glory points per 
Viking on your 
Longship at the end of 
the game. 
Pennant 
This tile gives you the 
Glory points shown on 
the tile at the end of 
the game.
Goods  
This tile gives you as 
many Glory points as 
shown on the tile at the 
end of the game, but 
only if you have sold it at 
a Port and set it next to 
your Longship board.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends when all players have finished the 4th Voyage by bringing 
their Longship marker back to the final Harbor tile.
Then everyone counts their Glory points. The player with the most Glory 
points at the end of scoring wins the game! 
△Scoring Glory points
There are many things that give you Glory points: 
Coins : Count the value shown on each Coin.
Runes : Score Glory points for each set of Runes you have, earning points 
for the number of Runes in each set.
Mjöllnirs : Score Glory points by multiplying the number 
of Mjöllnirs you have by the number of Vikings on your 
Pennants, Goods, and Monsters : Score Glory points 
as shown on each tile you have on or next to your 
Longship board. Exception: Goods tiles still on your 
Longship do not give you any Glory points.. 
After adding up all of your Glory points, the player 
with the most points wins the game. If there is a tie, 
both players share the victory. 
 
 
 
 
Tiles placed on the middle 
spaces of your Longship
 
Simple Weapon  
This tile helps you fight 
Monsters by reducing 
their strength by 1.
Double Weapon 
This tile helps you 
fight Monsters 
by reducing their 
strength by 2. This 
tile counts as two 
Weapons for the 
Weapon Harbor tile.
Simple Sail
This tile lets you gain 
1 Viking at the end of 
each Voyage.
Double Sail 
This tile lets you gain 
2 Vikings at the end 
of each Voyage.
This tile counts as 
two Sails for the Sails 
Harbor tile.
1 Weapons 
2 Sails 
There is a limit of 1 Viking per Shield on your 
Longship. You cannot gain a Viking if there are no 
available Shields.
3 Mjöllnir 
4 Pennants 
5 Goods 
CLARIFICATIONS ON 
VOYAGE TILES

1 Rune 
Rune 
This tile gives you Glory points 
depending on how many Runes 
you've collected. The more Runes 
you have, the more Glory points 
you'll get.
If you have more than 5 Runes, you can begin 
a new set with the extra Runes.
2 Port 
Simple Port 
This tile lets you sell 1 
Good on your Longship 
and recruit 1 Viking. 
Choose 1 Goods tile 
to place next to your 
Longship board, along 
with the Port tile, 
freeing up one of the 
middle spaces of your 
Double Port 
This tile lets you sell 2 
Goods on your Longship 
and recruit 1 Viking. 
Choose 2 Goods tiles 
to place next to your 
Longship board, along 
with the Port tile, freeing 
up two of the middle 
spaces of your Longship. 
This tile only counts as a 
single Port (since there is 
only one anchor symbol) 
for the Port Harbor tile.
You can take a Port tile even if you have no 
Goods on your Longship. They still let you 
recruit 1 Viking.
3 Monsters 
Monster 
This tile gives you as many Glory points as shown on the 
tile at the end of the game. 
You can only take this tile if you successfully defeat it. 
If you decide to pass by it without Fighting, you must 
Sacrifice one of your Vikings.
Tiles placed next to your Longship
Tiles that stay on the World board 
 
Visit 
This tile lets you recruit 1 or 2 Vikings depending on the 
order in which players pass by this tile. When you place this 
tile on the board, add 2 Vikings to the space with 2 Viking 
symbols, and 1 Viking to the space with 1 Viking symbol. The 
first player to pass by this tile takes two Vikings and places 
them on his Longship, if possible. The second player to pass 
by this tile takes the remaining Viking and adds it to his 
Longship, if possible. Any other players who pass by this tile 
do not take any Vikings. 
Pillage 
This tile lets you take a 3-value or 1-value Coin depending on 
the order in which players pass by this tile. When you place 
this tile on the board, add 1 value-3 Coin to the space with 
the 3-value symbol and 1 value-1 Coin to the space with the 
value-1 symbol. The first player to pass by this tile takes the 
value-3 Coin and adds it to his personal reserve. 
The second player to pass by this tile 
takes the value-1 Coin 
and adds it to his personal 
reserve. Any other players 
who pass by this tile do 
not take any Coins.
1 Visit 
2 Pillage 

The game plays using the standard rules with a few exceptions:
> Setup : Choose one of the unused Longship boards to become a Ghost 
Longship. Place the corresponding Longship marker on the first starting 
position. The Ghost Longship will move last during the first turn. 
> Navigation: The Ghost Longship moves following the standard rules, 
moving when he is furthest behind on the World board and has been 
passed by both of your Longship markers. However, he always moves 5 
spaces at a time, navigating from Village to Village, until he reaches 
the Harbor tile. 
Since he only moves between Villages, you can never 
engage the Ghost Longship in Combat, and he can never 
engage you. The Ghost Longship never takes Vikings or 
Coins when he passes by a Visit or Pillage tile.
Furthermore, when he passes by Monsters, he ignores them 
and does not sacrifice a Viking.
If it’s your turn and the Ghost Longship is the first marker 
in front of you, you still need to catch up to it following 
the standard Rules of Navigation. 
> Begin a new Voyage  : The Ghost Longship always 
begins each Voyage in the 1 starting position. If 
he didn’t arrive first, switch the places in order to 
put him last. 
Clarifications on Harbor tiles :
The first Harbor tile is always the same: Give a 6-value Coin 
to the 1st player to reach the Harbor, a 3-value Coin to the 2nd 
player, and a 1-value Coin to the 3rd.
The other Harbor tiles all work in the following way Determine 
who has the most total Goods tiles 
, different Goods 
, Runes 
, 
Shields
 
, Weapons 
, Ports
, Monsters
, or Sail tiles
, as 
shown on the Harbor tile. Give a 6-value Coin to the player with the most, a 
3-value Coin to the player with the 2nd most, and a 1-value Coin to the player 
with the 3rd most. If there's a tie, the tied player who arrived at the Harbor 
first wins the tie.
VARIANT FOR 2 PLAYERS
CREDITS 
Designers: Matthew Dunstan and 
Brett J. Gilbert
Illustrator: Biboun
Graphic Designer: Allison Machepy 
Translator: Danni Loe
© 2018 IELLO USA LLC. IELLO, Raids, and their 
logos are trademarks of IELLO USA LLC.
Warning: This product contains small parts that 
can be swallowed and may not be suitable for 
use by children under 36 months. 
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. 
NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 3 YEARS 
OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Made in Shanghai, China by Whatz Games.
Jeu en anglais. Importé au Canada par IELLO USA
LLC, 5550 Painted Mirage Rd.Suite 320, Las 
Vegas, NV 89149, USA.
Phone: 702-818-1789. Lot: RAIDSEN062018
WARNING!
Raids might be a punitive game if 
you have only 1 or even 0 Viking at 
the wrong time. Be careful!