The Avalon Hill Game Company 
4517 Harford Road  Baltimore, MD 21214 RAIL BA
AVALON HILL’S TRADEMARK NAME FOR ITS EMPIRE BUILDING GAME 
 
GAME 
COMPONENTS 
 
Mapboard of the United States 
Rulebook and Destination Chart (on back of 
rulebook) 
Payoff Chart 
28 Rail Line Tile Cards 
6 EXPRESS Title Cards 
6 SUPERCHIEF Title Cards 
6 Sets of tokens, each set having one pawn and 
two matching chips 
2 white dice and 1 colored die 
Play Money 
 
THE MAPBOARD 
The mapboard portrays the 28 major rail lines and 
the major cities they connected in the United States 
during the great days of railroading. Each rail line 
company is represented by its own distinctive set of 
lines, running from dot to dot; the Pennsylvania RR is 
represented by reddish sawtooth lines, for example. 
The players move by moving their pawns along these 
rail lines from dot to dot. 
The square “dots” represent the major cities where 
the players start and end their trips (the paired 
squares, Oakland-San Francisco, and Minneapolis-St. 
Paul, represent twin cities – each pair is counted as 
one city in the game). 
The round dots are smaller towns and rail 
junctions that the players use for movement. Each 
player rolls the dice and moves the number of dots he 
rolls. 
The board has been divided into seven “Regions” 
(labeled NORTHEAST to SOUTHWEST), each tinted a 
different 
color. 
 
STARTING THE GAME 
At the start of the game, each player is given 
$20,000 in cash, and one pawn and two chips of the 
same color. The pawn is his “train” that he will move 
from dot to dot; the chips are used to keep track of the 
city that he starts each trip from and the destination 
city that he is heading for. All Title Cards and 
remaining money are placed in the Bank. 
The players roll to see who goes first, the high 
roller starting the game. Play proceeds to each player’s 
left, clockwise around the board. 
Before the start of play, each player rolls twice and 
consults the DESTINATION TABLE to determine the 
region and city where he will start the game (see 
ROLLING FOR DESTINATIONS, below). This city is 
his “home city” for that game; he places his pawn and 
chips there at the start, and he should write it down on 
a piece of scrap paper, since he will have to return to 
that city at the end of the game to win. 
As soon as all the players have home cities, the 
first player rolls to find his first destination, and starts 
his first trip. 
(If two players roll the same home city, the second 
player must roll again for region and city to find a new 
home city – no players can have the same home city.) 
 
ROLLING FOR DESTINATIONS 
Each player must roll for a destination each time 
he starts a new trip (he does not roll at the end of the 
old trip; instead he must wait until just before he starts 
moving on his new trip). 
The player uses the DESTINATION TABLE to 
determine what city is his next destination. The 
DESTINATION TABLE is divided into eight small 
charts, one chart labeled REGIONS and the other 
seven charts named after the seven regions on the 
mapboard. To find his next destination, the player must 
first roll all three dice and consult the REGIONS chart 
to see which region on the board he is going to; then 
he must roll again and consult the chart for that region 
to pinpoint exactly which city in that region he must go 
to. He should put one of his chips on his destination 
city to remind himself where he is going (and leave the 
other chip in his starting city). 
 
How to use the charts 
The player must roll all three dice. Each small 
chart is divided into two columns labeled “odd” and 
“even” and into eleven rows numbered “2” through 
“12”. To find his destination, the player must look at the 
column indicated by the colored die and in the row 
indicated by the total rolled on the white dice. If the 
colored die comes up 1, 3, or 5, he looks in the “odd” 
column, if it comes up 2, 4, or 6, he looks in the “even” 
column; then he runs down that column until he comes 
to the row with the same total number as he rolled on 
the white dice (so if the white dice totaled 7, he would 
look in the “7” row). The entry that is found by this 
cross-indexing is that player’s next destination. 
 
Special: Choosing a REGION 
If a player rolls the same region that his pawn is 
already in (when he is rolling and consulting the 
REGIONS chart), he does not have to go to that 
region. Instead, he may choose any region on the 
board for his next destination. He cannot choose a 
particular city; he must choose just the region, and 
then roll again on that region’s chart to determine the 
exact city he must go to. 
Once a player has chosen a region and found his 
destination city, he cannot change his mind – he must 
go to that city. If he is already in the city he rolls, then 
he loses his turn that round. 
 
MOVING 
When it is his turn, a player moves by rolling the 
two white dice (not the colored die) and immediately 
moving his pawn along the rail lines on the board for 
the number of dots that he rolled. Once he rolls, he 
cannot pause to count dots or check routes – he must 
start moving immediately. To move from one dot to 
another dot, the pawn must move along a rail line that 
runs between those two dots; if more than one rail line 
runs between those two dots, the player must 
announce which rail line his “train” is using. The player 
may never take back any part of his move once he has 
moved his pawn – he is committed to using the first 
route his pawn uses! The player may choose his route 
and change it from turn to turn, but he must follow the 
rail lines and obey the rules below: 
Special: Once a pawn has used a rail line to move 
from one dot to another dot it cannot use that same rail 
line to move between those same two dots until after it 
has arrived at its next destination. In other words, each 
section of rail can be used only once per trip. The 
pawns can move through either or both of the dots 
again, and it can move from one of the dots to the 
other again, as long as it uses a different rail line each 
time it moves between the dots. As soon as the pawn 
arrives at its destination city it can use all of the rail 
sections on the board again, on its next trip. (Note: it is 
against the rules for a pawn to move in such a way that 
it is “trapped”, unable to get to its destination city. If 
moving to a particular dot would mean that a pawn 
could not get to its destination city without going over 
the same rail section twice, then the pawn cannot 
move to that particular dot – it must move to some 
other dot.) 
During his move, a player may change rail lines ay 
number of times, but he can change rail lines only at a 
dot. In other words, if a train pawn is on one rail line 
when it leaves a dot, it must stay on that rail line until it 
reaches the next dot; only then can it change to 
another rail line. 
 
 
 
 
In certain places on the board, rail line(s) of the same or 
different rail line companies intersect other than at a dot. As 
long as the token travels along the rail line of the same 
company it may change lines at this type of intersection. It may 
never switch from a rail line of one company to the rail line of 
another company except at a dot. 

 
 
 
Cities (black squares) count as dots; each pair of 
twin cities (Oakland-San Francisco, Minneapolis-St. 
Paul) count as one dot for the pair. 
A player must always move the full number of dots 
that he rolls, whether he wants to or not, until he 
arrives at his destination city. As soon as his pawn 
reaches its destination city, it must stop immediately – 
any extra movement is just lost. 
If a pawn arrives at its destination during its turn 
the player immediately collects his payoff and has the 
opportunity to make one purchase from the Bank (see 
PAYOFFS and PURCHASING below.) 
When the player has finished moving (and 
collected his payoff and made his purchase, if he 
arrived at his destination during his turn) it is the end of 
his normal turn. 
The Bonus Roll: Depending on what he rolls on 
the white dice during his normal turn, a player may be 
entitled to a Bonus Roll after he has finished his 
normal turn. A player is entitled to a Bonus Roll after 
his normal turn if either: 
1) 
He rolled “boxcars” (two 6’s) on the white 
dice during his normal turn; or 
2) 
He owned an EXPRESS and he rolled any 
doubles during his normal turn; or 
3) 
He owned a SUPERCHIEF when he rolled 
the dice during his normal turn. (So a player 
with a SUPERCHIEF gets a Bonus Roll 
every turn.) 
The colored die is rolled once for a Bonus Roll. 
The player must move his pawn the number of dots he 
rolled on the colored die, and he must abide by all the 
normal rules of movement – he may not move along a 
section of rail line he has already used this trip, he 
must move the full number of dots he rolled (unless he 
arrives at his destination), and so on. If the player 
arrived at his destination during his normal turn, then 
he must find a new destination and use the Bonus Roll 
to start his next trip. If the Bonus Roll brings him to his 
destination, he immediately collects his PAYOFF and 
has a chance to buy from the Bank. 
A player can get no more than one Bonus Roll per 
turn, no matter what he rolls and what he owns. If he is 
entitled to a Bonus Roll he must take it. 
 
USER FEES 
At the end of your turn, you must pay for the rail 
lines that your pawns used that turn. You pay only for 
the rail lines that your pawn used to move from dot to 
dot. How much you pay, and who you pay, depends on 
who owned the rail lines when your pawn used them. 
1) 
You must pay the Bank $1000 if your pawn 
moved along any rail lines that you own or 
the Bank owns. You pay only $1000 per 
turn, no matter how many of your own or the 
Bank’s rail lines you used that turn. If you do 
not use any of your own or the Bank’s rail 
lines, then you do not have to pay the 
$1000. 
2) 
You must pay $5000 to each player who 
owned rail line that your pawn moved along 
that turn. If your pawn moved along rail lines 
belonging to two players, then you must pay 
each of them $5000. You must pay that 
player $5000 only once per turn, no matter 
how many of his rail lines you use that turn; 
one payment of $5000 allows you to use all 
of that player’s rail lines that turn. 
3) 
As soon as all of the rail lines have been 
bought, the $5000 penalty goes up to 
$10,000 for the rest of the game. After all the 
rail lines have been bought, you must pay 
$10,000 to a player if you used any of his rail 
lines that turn. (This $10,000 penalty 
remains in effect even if rail lines are sold 
back to the Bank later in the game: once all 
rail lines have been bought, the penalty is 
$10,000 for the rest of the game.) 
4) 
Special: If the penalty for using a rail line 
goes up while you are on a dot that that rail 
line runs into, then you are “established” on 
that rail line and continue to pay the old 
penalty for as long as you continue to use 
that rail line. As soon as you use another rail 
line to move from dot to dot, however, you 
are no longer “established” and must pay the 
new, full penalty to use that rail line after 
that. 
Example A: Your pawn is on New York Central, 
which nobody owns; to use it you pay $1000 to the 
Bank. Then some other player buys New York Central 
while you are on it. As long as you stay on it, and do 
not use any other rail line, you continue to pay only 
$1000 per turn to use it, instead of $5000 (you must 
pay the $1000 to the owner, not to the Bank, however). 
If you use another rail line, and then use New York 
Central again later – even later the same turn – you 
must pay the full $5000 penalty. 
Example B: You are on GM&O, which another 
player owns, so the penalty for using it is $5000. Then 
somebody buys the last rail line, so the penalty for 
using GM&O goes up to $10,000. Since you were on it 
when the penalty went up, you can continue to use it 
and only pay $5000, as long as you do not use any 
other rail line. 
You can pay no more than one penalty to each 
player on the same turn – so if you move along a rail 
line that you are “established” on, and then move along 
a rail line that is owned by the same player, you pay 
that player only one penalty – the $5000 (or $10,000) 
penalty to use all his rail lines. 
You must pay a separate penalty to each player 
whose lines you used that turn, and in addition you 
must pay the Bank if you used your own or the Bank’s 
rail lines. 
You must pay all your penalties. If you do not have 
enough money, you must sell a rail line (see SELLING, 
below), and keep selling until you have enough money. 
If you don’t have any rail lines and cannot pay your 
penalties, you are out of the game! 
 
SELLING 
If at the end of his turn a player does not have 
enough money to pay all his penalty fines, then he 
must sell one (or more) of his rail lines. This is the only 
time in the game that a player is allowed to sell 
anything he has bought; he may never sell a 
SUPERCHIEF or an EXPRESS. He may never sell 
unless he does not have enough money to pay his 
expenses. 
A player who is forced to sell has two choices. He 
may sell any of his rail lines back to the Bank for half of 
its normal price; or he may put the rail line up for 
auction among the other players. In an auction, the 
bidding starts to the seller’s left and proceeds 
clockwise around the table; the minimum bid is one 
half of the rail line’s normal price; players may bid or 
pass, but every bid must be a multiple of $500 and 
must be higher than the last bid. Players who pass 
may bid again if the auction comes around to them 
again; the auction is over as soon as all the players 
have passed in turn around the table. The highest 
bidder pays his bid to the selling player and takes the 
rail line. 
If nobody bids, the Bank automatically buys the 
card for half price. Once a player has put a rail line up 
for bid, he cannot take it back, even if nobody bids or 
he doesn’t want the high bidder to get it: he must 
auction it. 
 
ENDING A TRIP 
Whenever a player’s pawn moves onto the 
destination city it is heading for, the pawn must 
immediately stop (the player does not have to roll the 
exact number of dots to move onto the destination city 
– if he rolls higher he just moves onto it and loses the 
rest of that roll. 
As soon as his pawn arrives at his destination, the 
player collects a cash PAYOFF. The player uses the 
PAYOFF CHART to determine how much money he 
receives for that trip; the amount of money depends on 
where that trip started and where the trip ended. The 
player reads across the top of the PAYOFF CHART 
until he finds the column for the city where he started 
the trip (he should have left one of his colored chips in 
that city at the start of the trip, to help him remember). 
Then he reads down the chart until he comes to the 
row for the destination city he has arrived at. The 
number at the intersection of that column and that row 
is the amount of money he collects (the number is 
given in thousands of dollars, and .5 is $500; so a 
payoff of 25.5 is $25,500). 
After he has collected his payoff, the player should 
move both chips to his destination city, in preparation 
for his next trip. 
 
PURCHASING 
As soon as he has collected his PAYOFF, the 
player immediately has the chance to purchase one 
item from the bank. This is the only time that a player 
may purchase from the bank – just after he has 
collected a PAYOFF – and he may buy only one item 
per PAYOFF. He must complete another trip and 
collect another PAYOFF before he can buy another 
item. 
A player can buy either a rail line (if the Bank owns 
any), an EXPRESS, or a SUPERCHIEF (if he does not 
already own one). If he buys anything, he takes the 
appropriate title card – either a rail line title card, or the 
EXPRESS or SUPERCHIEF title card with the same 
color as his pawn – and pays the Bank the price that is 
printed on that card. If he does not have enough 
money to pay the price, then he cannot buy that item – 
he cannot sell something he already owns to get 
money to buy something else. 
(For easy reference, the rail line prices are also 
printed on the game board and on the back cover of 
this rulebook. EXPRESSES always cost $4000, and 
SUPERCHIEFS always cost $40,000.) 
 
SPECIAL TRAINS – 
EXPRESS AND SUPERCHIEF 
Owning an EXPRESS or SUPERCHIEF increases 
a player’s chance of getting a Bonus Roll each turn. An 
EXPRESS costs $4000, and the player gets a Bonus 
Roll if he rolls doubles on the white dice while he owns 
it. A SUPERCHIEF costs $40,000, and the player gets 
a Bonus Roll every turn that he rolls the white dice 
while he owns it. 
A player owning neither gets a Bonus Roll only 
when he rolls double sixes on the white dice. 
A player can never get more than one Bonus Rol 
per turn, no matter what he owns. 
A player cannot “trade in” an EXPRESS on a 
SUPERCHIEF; a SUPERCHIEF costs full price 
whether the player owns an EXPRESS or not. 
 
 
 

 
 
“DECLARING” AND WINNING THE GAME 
To win, a player must return to his “home city” (the 
city where he started the game) with $200,000 or more 
in cash. Before a player can return to his “home city” 
and win, however, he must warn the other players by 
“declaring” to them at the start of the trip, that he has 
$200,000 and is returning home. The other players 
have the opportunity to try to stop him by using the 
“rover play” (see below). A player cannot win just by 
moving into his “home city” during a normal trip – he 
must “declare” in advance and then, moving normally, 
move into his home city while he has $200,000 or 
more in cash. 
“Declaring”: To declare, a player must 1) have 
$200,000 or more in cash, 2) be in his latest 
destination city, and 3) be about to roll for a new 
destination and start a new trip. If he meets all three of 
the above conditions, the player has the choice of 
“declaring” or not; however, if he does “declare”, he 
must announce it before he rolls for his next 
destination. 
If 
he 
rolls 
for 
destination 
without 
“declaring” then he must go to his next destination – he 
does not have another chance to “declare” until he has 
arrived at that destination and is about to start his next 
trip after that. 
If a player is in his “home city” when he “declares” 
he wins immediately. 
Rolling for an “Alternate” Destination: When he 
“declares”, the player still rolls for a new destination, 
which is called his “alternate” destination. However, 
instead of going to his “alternate” destination, the 
player must go to his “home city” to try to win. As long 
as he is still able to win by reaching his home city, the 
player ignores the “alternate” destination entirely: he 
may move right through it without stopping, and he 
does not get any PAYOFF for reaching it. 
The Trip to the “Home City”: Once he has rolled 
for an “alternate” destination, he starts a normal trip, 
moving normally, except he is heading for his “home 
city”. The player must obey all the normal rules of 
movement: he cannot move along the same section of 
rail line twice during the same trip, he must pay all the 
fines and penalties each turn, and so on. 
Winning the Game: To win the game, the player 
must reach his home city with $200,000 or more in 
cash before any of the other pawns catch his pawn. 
The player’s pawn stops immediately when it reaches 
its “home city”. He does not collect a PAYOFF for 
reaching his “home city” unless it is also his “alternate” 
destination that trip. If, after paying all his fines and 
penalties that turn, he still has $200,000 or more in 
cash, he immediately wins the game! 
The Rover Play: Once a player has “declared”, the 
first player to move onto or through a dot occupied by 
the “declared” pawn collects $50,000 from the 
“declared” player. The player who is caught pays only 
the first pawn that catches him – after that he is no 
longer “declared” and must go to his “alternate” 
destination instead. 
A player who has “declared” can move through 
other pawns without penalty – he is “caught” only if 
another pawn moves onto or through him during its 
turn. 
Going to the “Alternate” Destination: As soon as a 
“declared” player falls below $200,000 or is caught by 
another pawn, he is no longer “declared”: he is no 
longer headed for his “home city”, and must go to his 
“alternate” destination, instead. The interrupted trip to 
his “home city” and the following trip to his “alternate” 
destination count as parts of the same trip. The player 
may not use the same section of rail line twice during 
this trip, except: if he has no other way of getting to his 
“alternate” destination, he may move along sections of 
rail lines he used while he was heading for his “home 
city’. He may not use the same rail sections twice any 
more than is absolutely necessary. 
Once he arrives in his “alternate” destination, the 
player collects his PAYOFF from the city where he 
“declared” to the “alternative” destination, and then if 
he has $200,000 or more when he starts his next trip, 
he may “declare” and try again. 
 
RULES OF COURTESY 
a player must announce immediately HE HAS 
OVER $150,000 IN CASH. If he has over $150,000 in 
cash, he must tell exactly how much he has if any of 
the players ask him. If he has under $150,000, he may 
keep his money amount secret. 
All players should always keep their property – rail 
lines, EXPRESS and/or SUPERCHIEF – spread out 
where all the other players can see them. When asked, 
a player must always tell if he owns a particular rail line 
or not. 
The collection of fines and penalties is not 
voluntary. If you use another player’s lines, you must 
pay him whether he wants you to or not – and whether 
he sees you use them or not. You must pay. 
As long as you do not use the same rail section 
twice, or move so that you have to use the same 
section of rail line twice, you may choose any route 
you wish to get from city to city – it does not have to be 
the shortest route. You may change your mind from 
turn to turn and take different routes: however, once 
you have moved your pawn, you may not change your 
mind and take any part of the move back! 
You may count dots and trace routes when it is not 
your turn. As soon as you roll the dice, however, you 
must start moving immediately – no pausing to count! 
 
ANALYTICAL NOTES 
The railroads depicted on the Game Board have 
been selected from actual railway lines in the United 
States. Of course not all lines of the specific railways 
used have been shown, only some of the more 
important ones. For example, the southern Railway 
extends to Jacksonville, Cincinnati, and St. Louis; and 
the Norfolk and Western now reaches Buffalo and 
Omaha. 
Mergers 
and 
other 
consolidations 
have 
significantly changed the railway map. Of the railroads 
used in RAIL BARON the following have been 
combined: 
1963: Chesapeake and Ohio obtained official 
control of Baltimore and Ohio. 
1967: Seaboard Air Line merged with Atlantic 
Coast Line to form Seaboard Coast Line Railroad 
Company, and later added Louisville and Nashville to 
form the Friendly System. 
1968: Pennsylvania Railroad merged with New 
York Central and later New York, New Haven and 
Hartford to form ill-fated Penn-Central Transportation 
Company. 
1970: Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy merged 
with Great Northern and Northern Pacific to form 
Burlington Northern. 
1972: Illinois Central merged with Gulf Mobile and 
Ohio to form Illinois Central Gulf Railroad Company. 
1973: Missouri Pacific acquired Texas and Pacific. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPTIONAL RULE NO. 1 
When it is a player’s turn to buy he can buy one of 
the groups listed below and treat it as one purchase. If 
the Bank does not own the whole group he can buy the 
part of the group the Bank does own. He must pay the 
total price for the group whether he buys the total 
group or only part. The players can still buy the lines 
one at a time normally. 
 
Group 
Name 
Total 
Price 
PA, NYC, and 
NYNHH 
Penn Central 
$62,000 
SAL, ACL and 
L&N 
Friendly 
$44,000 
B&O and C&O 
C&O 
$44,000 
CB&Q, GN and 
NP 
Burlington 
Northern 
$51,000 
IC and GM&O 
Illinois Gulf Central 
$26,000 
MP and T&P 
MP and T&P 
$31,000 
 
OPTIONAL RULE NO. 2 
In order to shorten the game when there are a lot 
of players, vary the price of a SUPERCHIEF. Instead 
of $40,000, charge the prices below when the following 
number of people are playing: 
 
No of Players 
Price of SUPERCHIEF 
$40,000 
$36,000 
$32,000 
$28,000 
 
OPTIONAL RULE NO. 3 
Instead of playing to$200,000 in cash, the players 
can play to the net worth indicated on the chart below. 
Each player totals his cash on hand and the rail lines 
and special train(s) he owns, and when this total 
reaches the net worth indicated below he can “declare” 
and head back to his home city to win the game. 
A player must announce his own net worth 
whenever he has more than $50,000 in cash. 
 
No of Players 
Net Worth Needed 
$300,000 
$250,000 
$225,000 
$200,000 
 
DESIGN CREDITS: 
Game Concept: R.S. Erickson 
Game Design: Thomas F. Erickson Jr. 
Game Development: Richard Hamblen and Mick Uhl 
Playtesting: Don Greenwood, Jim Skinner, Bill Barr, 
Paul O’Neill, Seth Carus, and members of Interest 
Group Baltimore 
Components and Printing: Monarch Services, Inc. 
Typesetting: Colonial Composition 
Re-mastering: Lewis Goldberg, 7/2012 
We will answer questions about the play of this game 
at no charge, but only if you enclose a stamped, self-
addressed envelope with your query. 
Replacement parts are available from the Avalon Hill 
Game Company. For a current replacement parts price list, 
send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to The Avalon 
Hill Game Company; 4517 Harford Road, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21214. 

GA2950001 
W-2114 7/82 
 
 
 
Copyright 1977, The Avalon Hill Game Co., Balto., MD. Printed in USA 
 
DESTINATION TABLE 
(Roll twice to find your DESTINATION. First roll and 
consult the REGIONS chart to find the region, then roll 
again and consult the chart for that region to pinpoint 
the destination city) 
 
 
ODD 
EVEN 
 
REGION 
 
WASHINGTON 
PITTSBURGH 
ALBANY 
PITTSBURGH 
BOSTON 
PHILADELPHIA 
BUFFALO 
WASHINGTON 
BOSTON 
PHILADELPHIA 
 
CHARLOTTE 
CHARLOTTE 
CHATTANOOGA 
CHARLESTON 
MIAMI 
JACKSONVILLE 
RICHMOND 
MIAMI 
KNOXVILLE 
TAMPA 
TAMPA 
KNOXVILLE 
 
DETROIT 
COLUMBUS 
DETROIT 
INDIANAPOLIS 
 
 
ODD 
EVEN 
 
SHREVEPORT 
SHREVEPORT 
DALLAS 
LITTLE ROCK 
NEW ORLEANS 
NEW ORLEANS 
DALLAS 
BIRMINGHAM 
SAN ANTONIO 
LOUISVILLE 
HOUSTON 
NASHVILLE 
HOUSTON 
NASHVILLE 
LOUISVILLE 
 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
ST PAUL 
MINNEAPOLIS 
ST PAUL 
MINNEAPOLIS 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
DES MOINES 
OMAHA 
PUEBLO 
OMAHA 
PUEBLO 
FARGO 
OKL. CITY 
FARGO 
 
RAPID CITY 
CASPER 
POCATELLO 
BILLINGS 
BUTTE 
BILLINGS 
BUTTE 
 
RENO 
SACRAMENTO 
LAS VEGAS 
EL PASO 
TUCUMARI 
 
RAILROAD PRICE CHART 
ACL 
Atlantic Coast Line 
$12,000 
AT&SF 
Atchison, Topeka, & Santa Fe 
40,000 
B&M 
Boston & Maine 
B&O 
Baltimore & Ohio 
24,000 
CB&Q 
Chicago, Burlington, & Quincy 
CMSTP&P 
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, & Pacific 
18,000 
C&NW 
Chicago & NorthWestern 
C&O 
Chesapeake & Ohio 
CRI&P 
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific 
29,000 
D&RGW 
Denver & Rio Grande Western 
6,000 
GM&O 
Gulf, Mobile & Ohio 
12,000 
GN 
Great Northern 
17,000 
IC 
Illinois Central 
MP 
Missouri Pacific 
21,000 
L&N 
Louisville & Nashville 
18,000 
NP 
Northern Pacific 
N&W 
Norfolk & Western 
12,000 
NYC 
New York Central 
28,000 
NYNH&H 
New York, New Haven & Hartford 
 
 
 
PA 
Pennsylvania 
30,000 
RF&P 
Richmond, Fredericksburg & Potomac 
SAL 
Seaboard Air Line 
SOU 
Southern 
SP 
Southern Pacific 
42,000 
SLSF 
St. Louis – San Francisco 
19,000 
T&P 
Texas & Pacific 
10,000 
UP 
Union Pacific 
40,000 
WP 
Western Pacific 
8,000