RAILWAYS OF THE WORLD QUICK RULES 
SETUP 
1. Randomly place goods cubes on all cities (minus one per city for 2 and 3 player games.) 
2. Each player gets trains of their color, one train tile, and no money. 
3. Set out to the side empty city markers (2p=10, 3p=12, 4p=14, 5p=16, 6p=18.) 
4. Deal 2 Baron cards (secret objective) to each player. Players get to keep one and discard the other. 
5. Place face up the 3 start RR Operations cards + 2 x the number of players. 
GAME PLAY 
Game is played in rounds of three. After each player has taken his or her turn in each round, move the round marker 
down one space. 
Players may take bonds on their turn and receive $5000 per bond taken (this does not count as an action.) Bonds can 
only be taken to make a purchase that the player could not afford otherwise. 
Auction Turn Order: At the beginning of the first round, turn order for the next 3 rounds is determined by whoever bids 
highest. Starting bidder is the player who went first last round, and then bidding goes clockwise. If everybody passes up to 
the last bidder then that last bidder automatically goes first. Player turns go clockwise from starting player. 
Turns consist of the following options: 
1. Build track – A link is a connection from one city to another. Players may lay 4 tracks max and places one of their 
trains on the track. Track laid must complete a link by the end of the 3rd round or the track and the player’s train 
will be discarded (train goes back to the player.) Max 1 link may be created per turn. Cost to build track is 
displayed on player aid cards. 
2. Urbanize a gray city – Place a new city tile, cost is $10,000. Place 2 cubes on the new urbanized city. Players 
may urbanize cities that contain empty city markers. 
3. Upgrade engine – Only one level improvement may be purchased per turn. The number of a player’s engine 
determines how many cities (or links) he may move a goods cube on his turn. Cost to upgrade an engine is 
located on the train card. 
4. Deliver one goods cube – Player receives one point on scoring track per link (city) the cube traveled. Player must 
start delivery on their link. If a cube travels on another player’s link(s) then that player gets the associated point(s.) 
Return delivered cubes to the bag. Place an empty city marker on a city when a city has no cubes remaining. 
Players may only move a cube the number of links as their engine card allows (the number on the engine card.) 
5. Take one RR Operations card – General notes: Purple diamond cards can be used once per round (not once per 
turn.) Players may use or benefit from multiple cards per turn. Fulfilling a green dot card or using a card already 
acquired is not an action. Cards that let players place cubes on any city can be placed on empty cities, removing 
the empty city marker. 
End of Round 
At the end of round 3 players receive money according to their placement on the score track minus $1000 per bond they 
possess. Draw one RR Operations card and place it face up. Discard any track tiles that do not complete a link. 
End of Game 
Once all the empty city markers have been placed on the board, finish the current round (completing the three rounds) 
and then complete one more full round of three. Note: If a player urbanizes and removes an empty city marker during 
these last rounds, the game still ends as normal. Total up the players scores by points on the score track + their Baron 
card points if completed, and subtracting one point per bond owned.