India in the era of the aspiring Mogul empire. New lands are being gained along with great prosperity attained through the trading of silk, tea, and 
spices. Imposing structures such as the Taj Mahal and the Red Fort are built, and gorgeous gardens are created alongside new buildings and parks 
that will impress generations to come even centuries later.
At a time when the empire has almost reached its greatest dimensions and is in a phase of relative stability, players, representing rajas and ranis, 
are called upon to live up to the requirements of their role as venerable sovereigns. They must improve their estates into magnificent and wealthy 
provinces. Keeping in mind the important role of karma, players balance their growth in a demanding interplay of prestige and prosperity. The one 
with the most successful outcome will truly become one of the nation’s legendary leaders.
For 2 to 4 players, 12 years and up
Contents 
Object of the Game
Your task is to develop your province with the help of your workers and the clever use 
of your accumulated dice. In the end, you must win the race with a combination 
of wealth and fame. The fame track and the money track run parallel to each other 
in opposite directions around the gameboard. The fame markers are moved clockwise, 
the money markers, counter-clockwise.
As you build and expand, you attempt to increase both your fame and wealth so that 
your fame marker and your money marker intersect. The first player to have his fame 
marker and his money marker converge or even pass each other on their tracks, has a 
good chance to win. 
4 bonus markers
1 (double-sided) gameboard (2 players or 3 and 4 players)
4 “Kali statue” boards
4 province boards
24 workers (6 per color)
4 fame markers 
4 money markers 
48 dice 
(12 per color)
1 starting player elephant
(to be put together before the first game)
20 cubes 
(5 per color: 4x upgrade 
and 1x karma)
64 province tiles 
(16 per color)
30 yield tiles 
(8 in white, 9 in yellow, 6 in red, 7 in brown)
2 cover tiles
(for the 3-player game)
8 river tiles
4 boats 
fame track
money track

Set-up
The player who has rolled the lowest total 
value becomes the starting player. In case of a tie, 
it’s the player who ate Indian food last. He 
places the starting player elephant 
by his Kali statue and puts his money 
marker on space 3 of the money track. 
The player to his left (i.e., in player order) puts 
his money marker on space 4, the player to 
the left of that player puts his on space 5, 
and so on; consequently, the player to go last 
in the first round starts with the most money.
Place the gameboard in 
the middle of the table with 
the side that corresponds to 
the number of players facing 
up (“2 players“ or “3 and 4 
players“). In a 3-player game, 
cover the marked spaces with the cover tiles: 
Put all 48 dice next to the game-
board as a general supply.
Not needed: the yellow, red, and brown yield tiles (you use 
them only for the Navaratnas version) and the 8 river tiles 
(for the Ganga-Module). 
Sort the province tiles, first by colors 
and then by the symbol on their backs 
(snake, cow, tiger) so that you get 
12 stacks. Mix the 12 stacks separately 
and put them face up next to the 
gameboard, well visible to everybody.
Mix the 8 white yield tiles and put them 
as a face-down stack on the temple. 
Each player gets a province 
board and the players’s 
components in one color: one 
Kali statue board, 6 workers, 
1 boat, 5 cubes (karma and 
upgrade), 1 money marker and 
1 fame marker, plus 1 bonus 
marker for the money track. 
Put the Kali statue 
and the province 
board with the depicted 
sides facing up in front
 of you. 
Place 3 of your workers 
below your Kali statue.
Place 3 workers on the appli-
cable spaces on the record 
tracks (fame: 15, money: 20) 
and on the river (bridge).
Put your boat on 
the starting space 
of the river.
Place your karma 
cube on level 1 of 
the karma path.
Put 1 upgrade cube 
in the left column 
(value 2) of each 
“Building 
development“ scroll.
Put your fame 
marker on space 0 
of the fame track.
Put your bonus marker for 
the money track with the river 
space side up on the first bonus
space of the money track (space 12).
Each player 
takes one die in 
each color, rolls 
these 4 dice, and 
puts them, with 
the rolled result 
facing up, on any 
unoccupied arms of
 his Kali statue.

Course of the Game
The game proceeds over several rounds, each of which consists of several 
stages. In each stage, players, in turn – in clockwise order, beginning with the 
starting player – place one worker, pay the costs, if required, and immediately 
carry out the associated action. This continues until nobody can place a worker 
any more. After that, each player takes his workers back, and a new round 
begins.
Workers can be placed in the following areas on the gameboard:
I. 	 At the quarry, in order to carry out building actions on your 
province board.
II. 	At the market place, in order to receive money through 
market scorings later in the game.
III.	In the Great Mogul’s palace, in order to get various benefits 
there.
IV. 	At the harbor, in order to advance on the river and thus reach 
lucrative river spaces.
At the quarry and at the harbor, workers are always placed row by row from 
left to right. At the market place and in the palace, you can choose any 
(unoccupied) action space.
While advancing on the fame and money tracks and developing your province 
board, you will have chances to obtain valuable bonuses.
Placing workers and carrying out the associated actions
The placement of workers always proceeds in this order:
1. Place a worker
2. Pay costs, if required: give up money and/or dice
3. Carry out the action
Costs: Depending on what action space you place a worker on, you might have 
to pay costs for being allowed to carry out the applicable action. Some spaces 
are for free; for others, you have to give up dice or money. How much it costs 
to place a worker on an action space is shown on the action space itself. 
On each action space there may be only one worker. Dice are never placed 
onto the board, but always into the (general or personal) supply!
Pay money for an action: Every time you have to pay money for an 
action (e.g., at the harbor or the quarry), you move your money marker 
back on the money track accordingly – 1 space for each money you 
have to pay. If your marker is sitting on 0, you have no money left and 
temporarily cannot carry out any actions that cost money.
The same applies to actions for which you have to pay dice – if you 
don’t have any (suitable) dice, you can’t carry out the applicable action.
Dice are the most important resource in this game. 
Whenever you get a die from the general supply, you 
roll it immediately and, with the rolled number facing 
up, add it to your own supply, i.e., on your Kali statue. The 
value of the die conforms to the number rolled (from 1 to 6).
Attention! You may store only as many dice as Kali has free hands – 
that means, in the basic game you may own a maximum of 10 dice. 
If you get into a situation that would get you more dice, you either take 
fewer dice or put dice from your Kali statue back into the general supply 
before taking new ones.
If a die color is temporarily unavailable 
in the supply, you can’t take this color 
at that moment.
cost-free
1 money
1 die of the 
applicable color
quarry
market place
harbor
palace

Building action (quarry) 
Place a province tile in your province and get fame 
points and/or money for this
In order to develop your province, you need to send workers into the quarry. 
Depending on the space where you place the worker, you pay 1 to 4 money on the 
money track. In return, you acquire one of the 12 province tiles on open display. 
On the top left of the tiles you can see what dice with which total minimum value 
you have to give up in order to take the tile. Put dice of the respective color back 
into the supply. Their total value has to be at least as high as the one shown on 
the tile. When building, you are allowed to overpay. That means: In order to acquire 
a tile with the value “blue 7,“ you can pay with a blue 3 and a blue 5, for example.
Besides the costs, the tiles also depict roads, buildings and/or markets. Once you 
acquire a province tile, you immediately have to place it onto your province board.
Example: Rajesh sends one of his workers into the quarry. He pays 1 money. Then he puts 
2 orange dice back into the supply. He takes the tile with the orange 9 and connects it to 
an already-existing road on his province board.
The province boards
The province board shows the 
territory that you, being a raja, 
control and strive to expand. Your 
residence is in the middle on the 
top; from there, 3 roads lead into 
the country. Every time you add a 
new province tile, the end of one 
of its roads has to connect to an 
already-existing road, so that there is a connection to the residence. 
You can turn the new tile in any direction. You may also orient a tile in 
such a way that it cuts off a road of an adjacent tile; not all road ends 
need to be connected – it is sufficient that each tile is connected to the 
residence through at least one road. Once placed, the tiles cannot be 
relocated later on. Be careful not to cut off all roads, so that you always 
have good possibilities for placing a tile.
Special yields – There are yields printed on the edge of the province 
boards (symbolically, for special gains due to trade relations you have 
established). You get these immediately when you have connected them 
to your residence via a road, after scoring for the province tile 
itself (see below).
Example: Leila puts 
a province tile with 
a bend in the corner 
on the left. Since the 
ends of the road on 
the tile connect to 
both adjacent yields and are thus 
connected to the residence, Leila is 
allowed to take any 1 die from the 
supply and advance her money marker 
5 spaces.
Of course, it is also possible to place a tile without creating a connection to 
the special yield. In this case, you don’t get anything extra.
When you have added a new tile to your province, you immediately score 
money and/or fame for it. Some tiles show one or two market tents with 
certain goods (silk, tea, or spices) of a certain value; other tiles show one 
or two buildings (temple, palace, fort, or mill); and a few tiles show a 
combination of both. 
When you add a tile with one or two markets to your province, you 
immediately receive the amount of money indicated on that tile. When 
you add a tile with one or two buildings, you immediately receive 2, 3, 
or 4 fame points for each building, depending on where your upgrade 
cube is on the scroll for the corresponding building on the gameboard. 
The upgades of the buildings
The 4 types of buildings that you 
can erect in your province are shown 
on the gameboard. At the beginning 
of the game, your upgrade cubes lie 
on the first level of each building – 
i.e., you earn 2 fame points when you 
add a province tile with 1 building (or, 
likewise, 4 fame points for 2 buildings). 
 
Upgrades enable you to improve 
your constructional skills and to earn 
3 (or 4) points for a certain building 
type in later building actions.
I.

You can acquire upgrades from the raja at the 
palace by giving up a value-4 die there (see p. 18, 
“The Chambers“). In addition, there is a river 
space that allows you an upgrade. And you may 
upgrade a building automatically after you have 
crossed the applicable bonus space (space 5) on 
the fame track or connect the applicable special 
yield on your province board. When you are allowed 
to upgrade, you choose one of the four building 
types and move your upgrade cube one space to the 
right in the corresponding row.
Attention! Upgrades don’t count for buildings on 
tiles that are already lying in your province, but only 
for buildings that you add after upgrading. 
 
Example: There are 2 buildings on the bend that Leila has added. She advances 
her fame marker 5 spaces, since she earns 2 points for the temple plus 3 points 
for the mill – which she already upgraded once in an earlier turn. 
Since she has connected a special yield to the road network and the residence 
by placing the tile, she may – after scoring for the tile – take another die of any 
color and upgrade a building of her choice.
Market action (market place) 
Collect money for certain markets in your province
Every time you send a worker to one 
of the market spaces, you generate 
income for the markets laid out in 
your province. There are markets with 
3 kinds of goods: 
silk tea spices 
and 2 types of market spaces:
Assorted goods – when you place a worker here, you 
may score for exactly one market per kind of good.
Example: 
There are 4 markets on display in Rajesh’s province – three of them with tea and one 
with silk. If he places one of his workers on this market space, he can score for 
2 markets: the silk market plus one of the 3 tea markets. For this, he gets 5 money.
Goods of one kind – when you place a worker here, you 
have to give up any one die. Then you may score for up 
to a maximum of as many markets of one kind of 
good as corresponds to the value of the die. 
Example: If Rajesh places his worker on this market space and gives up a die with a value 
of 4, he can score for all 3 tea markets and gets 7 money for this.
Attention! In the 3- or 4-player game, you may place only one of your 
workers on the assorted goods market in a round; that means, if you 
have placed a worker on the first space, the second space is no longer 
available to you in this round. It can then only be used by another 
player. However, you still have the possibility to place workers on the 
other market type.
II.
upgrade symbol

Actions at the palace
Give up a die, if required, and get a benefit
When you place a worker in the Great Mogul’s palace, this can be without 
cost or may require giving up one die – a die of either a specific color or an 
exact number.
The palace has the following areas: 
The outer terrace (cost: free)
Take 2 money. You may also reroll as many 
of your dice as you want.
 
The terrace 
(cost: free)
Take 1 die of the 
applicable color 
from the supply.
Example: Leila takes one orange die from the supply, 
rolls it and puts it on her Kali statue. 
The balconies (cost: 1 die of a 
specific color)
Give up 1 die of a specific color 
and get 2 dice of a different 
color. 
Example: Rajesh gives up one blue die (of any value) and 
takes 2 orange dice; he rolls them immediately and 
puts them on his Kali statue. 
The chambers (cost: 1 die of any color with an exact number)
Great Mogul – Give up one die showing a “1.“ In return, 
you get 2 fame points and become the starting player in the 
next round. 
Dancer – Give up one die showing a “2.“ In return, you take 
any 2 dice from the supply and draw a face-down white yield 
tile. You immediately earn the yield of the tile (1 die, 3 money, 
1 upgrade, or 1 karma). Then the yield tile is put aside to form 
a discard pile. When you run out of tiles, reshuffle the used 
ones and form a new supply. 
Yogi – Give up one die showing a “3.” In return, you get 
2 karma and 1 die of your choice (see p. 20, explanations of 
the karma). 
Raja Man Singh – Give up 
one die showing a “4.” In 
return, you upgrade a building 
type of your choice and earn 
3 money.
Master builder – Give up one die showing a “5.” Cover any 
tile in your province with another one from the supply. All tiles 
still need to have a connection to the residence. You cannot 
use the master builder if you have no matching tiles or dice.
Important: The new tile has to be more expensive than the 
old one; just pay the difference by giving up 1 (or more) dice 
in the color of the new tile. You may overpay. 
Example: Leila gives up a green value-5 die. She 
wants to overbuild the tile with the orange “4” 
by covering it with the tile with the violet “6.” To 
do so, she has to give up a violet die with a value 
of at least 2.
When covering a tile, you do not receive any special yield 
again. You may cover every province tile only once. 
Portuguese – Give up one die showing a “6.” In return, you 
advance exactly 6 unoccupied spaces on the river and get the 
applicable earnings.
Attention! When you have advanced to the last 6 spaces on 
the river, you may not use the Portuguese anymore.
III.

River action (harbor) 
Give up a die showing a 1, 2, or 3 and advance up to three 
unoccupied spaces on the river
The river action can be used only if you give up a 
“1,” “2,” or “3.” 
Every time you place a worker at the 
harbor, you may advance your boat up 
to three unoccupied spaces on the river, 
depending on the number on the die you 
have given up. The harbor provides space 
for several workers. The first worker placed 
here doesn’t cost anything; workers placed 
later cost 1 or 2 money. 
If you give up a die showing a “1,” you advance exactly one unoccupied 
space; if you give up a “2,” you advance one or two unoccupied spaces; if 
you give up a “3,” you may advance up to three unoccupied spaces. Spaces 
occupied by other players’ boats are not included in the count but are skipped. 
So there can never be more than one boat on any particular river space.
The only exceptions to this are the starting space and the final river space 
where multiple boats may rest.
You immediately get the earnings of the space where you stop your boat.
Example: Leila places a 
worker at the harbor. For 
this, she has to pay 1 money. 
Then she gives up a die 
showing a “2” and advances
her boat 2 spaces. She doesn’t include the space that is occupied by another player’s 
yellow boat in the count. She earns an upgrade of one building type. She moves her 
upgrade cube at the mill from “3” to “4.” 
Explanation of the earnings on the river: 
Take 2 dice of any colors from the supply, roll them, and 
put them on your Kali statue.
Increase your karma 2 levels (see p. 20, explanations of 
the karma).
Receive the amount of money indicated; advance 
accordingly on the money track.
Choose any of the palace actions 2 - 6 (Dancer, Yogi, Raja, 
Master builder or Portuguese) and carry it out immediately 
without placing a worker in the palace or giving up a die 
(the space in the palace may even be occupied).
For each level of karma that you have at this moment, take 
one die in the depicted color (so receive 0 to 3 dice). 
Receive the number of fame points indicated; advance 
accordingly on the fame track.
Upgrade a building type 1 level (e.g., move your temple 
cube from 2 to 3). 
Receive 1 money for each market that you have built in your 
province so far (if you have 5 markets, for example, you 
advance your money marker 5 spaces on the money track).
Conduct a market scoring for up to a maximum of markets 
of assorted goods. Collect the money for up to 3 
different markets (see p. 17, explanation of the markets).
Conduct a market scoring for goods of one kind that you 
have in your province, up to the maximum indicated on the 
river. If you have 4 silk markets, for example, you can score for 
all of them and advance on the money track accordingly. You 
do not have to give up a die for this (see p. 17, explanation of 
the markets). 
Receive 1 fame point per building upgrade that you have 
done up to now (if you have already upgraded buildings 3 
times, for example, you advance 3 spaces on the fame track).
Receive 2 money per building upgrade that you have done 
up to now (if you have already upgraded buildings 3 times, 
for example, you advance 6 spaces on the money track).
Receive 2 fame points per karma that you have at the 
moment (if your karma is at level 2, for example, you 
advance 4 spaces on the fame track).
When you have arrived at the final river space, you can no longer use the 
river action.
IV.

Karma 
Give up 1 karma and turn a die to the number on the opposite side
You can influence the result of a die roll through karma. One karma allows you 
to turn any die on your Kali statue to the opposite side when you place it; 
that means a “1” can turn into a “6” and vice versa, a “2” into a “5,” etc.
You start the game with karma at 
level 1. Over the course of the game, 
you can improve your karma – for 
instance, by sending a worker to 
the Yogi in the palace (see p. 18, 
“The Chambers” 
 “Yogi”) or by 
stopping your boat on the applicable 
river space (see p. 19, “River action”).
Besides this, there is a bonus space on the fame track (space 24) that increases 
your karma 2 levels if your fame marker stops on that space or crosses it. The 
highest karma level is 3; that means you may have a maximum of 3 karma.
In order to use karma, you don’t have to place any worker – you may use 
your karma anytime during your turn when giving up a die. For each karma 
you use, you move your karma cube 1 level down. So the karma can even go 
down to zero.
Get new workers
Move forward on the scoring tracks or on the river and receive 
more workers
At the beginning of the game, each player has 3 active 
workers at his disposal.
During the course of the game, you can get up to 2 additional 
workers. If you have advanced far enough on the respective 
scoring tracks (money: space 20; fame: space 15) or on the 
river (bridge), you receive extra workers. 
Important: As soon as you have received your second inactive 
worker (no matter whether on one of the tracks or the river), you 
immediately take your extra one off the board and remove him 
from the game. 
The fame and the money tracks as well as the river 
each have one space with an inactive worker per player 
color. The spaces on the scoring tracks with the inactive 
workers are regular spaces; at the moment when your 
money marker or fame marker stops on the respective 
space or crosses it, you take the worker of your color. 
With this, he becomes active. The inactive worker on the 
river doesn’t have his own river space (the bridge doesn’t 
count as a river space); that means, when your boat has 
passed the bridge, you take the worker of your color.
You never lose a worker once you have activated him this way, even if your 
marker falls back (which can happen only on the money track). You can place a 
new worker even in the same round in which you have obtained him.
Bonuses on the scoring tracks
Arrive at the space and receive the bonus
Besides the inactive workers, the two scoring tracks also have special spaces; 
when you reach or cross them, you immediately get the corresponding bonus.
The fame track has 3 bonus spaces:
Space 5: You receive an upgrade of a building type of your 
choice. (This upgrade counts from your next turn on.)
Space 24: You may increase your karma 2 levels.
Space 31: You may move your boat to the next unoccupied 
river space and get the applicable earnings.
The money track has 4 bonus spaces:
Spaces 12 and 44: You may move your boat to the next 
unoccupied river space and get the applicable earnings.
Spaces 33 and 55: You may take any 2 dice from the supply, 
roll them, and put them on your Kali statue.
Since you pay money and can thus fall back on the money track, 
there is a special bonus marker of your color that indicates 
which bonus you’ll get next on the money track. When you 
reach or cross space 12 for the first time and get the applicable 
bonus, you take the marker of your color, turn it over and put 
it on space 33 (die side facing up). When your money marker 
reaches or crosses this space as well, you turn the marker back 
and put it on space 44 (river space side facing up), etc. After 
you have crossed the last bonus space on the money track, you 
remove your marker from the game.
Attention! A bonus applies only to the track where it is printed. If, for 
example, your money marker passes a bonus space printed on the adjoining 
fame track, you don’t get the bonus from there, of course.

After you have placed all of your active workers and carried 
out the applicable actions, the round ends. If one of the 
players has placed a worker at the Great Mogul, he now gets 
the starting player elephant and becomes the starting player 
End of a Round
End of the Game
Notes
of the following round. If nobody has sent a worker to the Great Mogul, the 
elephant goes from the previous starting player clockwise to the next player. 
All players take all their active workers off the gameboard and put them back 
below their Kali statue. After that, the starting player begins the new round.
As soon as one player manages to have his fame marker and his money 
marker converge or pass each other, the end of the game is triggered. The 
current stage will still be completed – i.e., all players who are sitting between 
the player who has triggered the end of the game and the current starting 
player still have a chance to win and may place one more worker (provided 
they have any left) and carry out the applicable action.
In order to develop your province successfully and to win the race, you 
primarily need money, dice, and workers. It is important to make sure that 
you don’t run out of dice or of money and don’t have to make do with fewer 
workers than the other players for too long.
To summarize in brief:
Gain additional workers by advancing on the two scoring tracks and on the 
river.
Generate money primarily through markets; build them in your province and 
use workers to activate them. Additionally, bonuses on your province board, 
After that, players check who has won. If there are two or more players whose 
markers passed each other on their final turn, each of the players involved 
counts the difference of fame points between his money marker and his fame 
marker; the player with the most points wins the game. In case of a tie, the 
first player whose two markers passed each other wins.
(To find out who is second and third, etc., count the number of fame points 
that are still separating your fame marker from your money marker.)
on the river, and from the raja in the palace are good sources of money.
Such bonus spaces can get you extra dice as well. The palace also provides 
opportunities to obtain and exchange individual dice.
To fulfill the winning conditions, you need to establish a well thought-out road 
network within your province and gain as many special yields as possible. To 
this end, you will use the building action on the gameboard, for which you pay 
money and dice. Buildings in your province give you fame points; markets give 
you money.
Example: Rajesh’s money marker has passed his fame marker. His money marker is now on space 65 of the money track, his fame marker on space 30 
of the fame track. Then Leila has her final turn. She also manages to have her two markers pass each other. Her money marker ends up on space 52 of 
the money track, her fame marker on space 37 of the fame track. So Rajesh and Leila both have a difference of 2 fame points (it doesn’t matter where 
the money marker is). Since Rajesh was the first to have his two markers pass each other, he ekes out the win.

Play with 6 workers, 8 dice, and upgraded special yields
After having played the basic version for one or more games, you can opt 
for the “Navaratnas“ version for advanced players (English “The Nine 
Gems“, see p. 24, Mogul Lexicon 
 Raja Man Singh I). Here, the following 
modifications apply:
You can activate all 3 inactive workers. 
So you may play with up to 6 workers. 
You play with the back of your Kali statue 
and you may store only up to 8 dice. 
You play on the back of your province board. 
Here also, special yields are printed on the edge of 
the province board, which you can connect to your 
road network. However, these are only minor yields, 
but you can improve them during the course of the 
game.
At the beginning of the game, mix the brown yield 
tiles. Each player randomly picks one, reveals it and 
puts it on one of the two possible spaces on his 
province board. You decide which of the special yields 
on the board you wish to cover. 
 
At the moment when you connect them, the brown yield tiles give 
you a special yield that depends on the progress you have made so far 
in a specific field: 
Now place the remaining brown yield tiles 
as well as all other yield tiles face up on 
the buildings of the same color on the 
gameboard. You may get them during the 
game to enhance the special yield you can 
get from your province board.
The white, yellow, and red yield tiles give 
you special yields as follows:
Attention! Always score for the province tile first before you take the special 
yield. You may not move or cover yield tiles already placed on the board.
There are 2 ways to obtain additional yield tiles during the game:
a) When you are at the dancer
Every time you place a worker at the dancer and give up one value-2 
die of any color, you may take 2 dice of your choice from the supply and 
choose any yield tile. You immediately put this tile face up on an (as yet) 
unoccupied space of the corresponding color on your province board. 
Different from the basic game, here you earn the yield not immediately but 
only when you have connected the yield tile to a road on your province 
board.
b) When you have fewer active workers than other players
If, for example, you have a total of 4 active workers, but at least one of 
the other players already has 5 workers at his disposal, you get 1 yield tile 
in the fifth stage of the current round if it were your turn to place a worker 
but you don’t have any left. You immediately decide on which unoccupied 
space of your board you want to place the new yield tile (face up and 
color-matching).
Navaratnas Version
Dice (1 or 2 of 
specific colors or 
of your choice)
Money
Karma (1 or 2)
1 building upgrade
1 boat move (onto 
the next unoccupied 
river space)
1 fame point for each tile 
in your province that has 
at least 1 market
2 fame points for 
each bend that 
you have built in 
your province
1 money per building 
in your province
2 money for each 
yield tile you 
have connected
1 fame point 
for each active 
worker you have
1 fame point for every 
3 river spaces you 
have advanced so far 
(the starting space 
doesn’t count)
2 money per 
upgrade you have 
made so far

The river tiles:
Take as many dice of any colors from the supply as you 
have karma at this moment (e.g., 3 dice of the same 
color or of different colors, if your karma is at level 3). 
Take 3 dice, one of each color shown. 
Take the palace action, depending 
on the character shown (see page 
18, The “Chambers“).
Conduct a market scoring for goods of one kind. Collect 
the money for up to 3 markets of one type in your 
province, for which you do not have to pay an extra die 
(see p. 17, explanation of the markets).
Advance up to 3 unoccupied spaces on the river and 
collect the earnings of the space where you stop.
If at least one other player even has 2 more active workers than you, you take 
another yield tile and place it as if it were your turn to place a worker but you 
can’t place any for the second time. 
Attention! You may only take yield tiles in a color for which you still have 
space available on your board. You may also refrain from taking a yield tile.
For Mixed Player Groups
For advanced players who play with a group that includes beginners, it is also 
possible to play with handicaps. 
In this case, the advanced players use the Navaratnas side of their
board and the back of their Kali statue, whereas the beginners use the basic
side of their board and the front of their Kali statue. 
You can have up to 5 workers. The yellow, red, and brown yield tiles stay in the 
box. You play according to the basic rules and use only the white yield tiles for 
which you get a yield only at the dancer (as in the basic game) to 
use immediately.
Modify river spaces using river tiles
For this version, you add the 8 river tiles to the game. They modify the river 
earnings. At the beginning of the game, shuffle the river tiles face down. Roll 
a die, count the spaces, beginning with the first space after the starting space, 
draw the first tile blindly and place it face up on the corresponding river space. 
For example, if you roll a “2,“ you place the first river tile on the second space 
and, in doing so, replace the 2 karma shown there. 
Roll again, count the next spaces and place a tile until either you run out of 
tiles or the river ends. The final space may never be covered by a river tile. 
Return remaining river tiles to the game box.
The Ganga Module

Mogul empire (1526-1858) – The Mogul empire was 
a great empire that developed in the Indus-Ganges 
plain in North India. At the peak of its power (17th 
century), it comprised almost the entire India (as we 
know it today) and some parts of Afghanistan. In 
1858, the remaining part of the empire was occupied 
by the British and ceased to exist. A rich heritage of architecture, painting, and 
poetry shaped by Persian and Indian artists have been preserved to the present 
day. The empire was named after its rulers, the Great Moguls.
Great Mogul – Also called ’Mogul’ or ’Mogul 
Emperor.’ The name probably came to Europe through 
the Portuguese (in Portuguese, Grão Mogol) who were 
the dominating power in the Indian Ocean territory at 
that time. The word Mogul is derived from the Persian 
mughul, which means ’Mongol,’ referring to the fact 
that some Mogul’s ancestor had married into the clan of Genghis Khan.
The most prominent Mogul ruler in history was Akbar the Great (reign: 
1556-1605); he brought the empire to prosperity in military, political, and 
economic terms. Under Shah Jahan (reign: 1627-1658), the Mogul empire 
reached its cultural peak. At that time, the Taj Mahal, the Red Fort (Delhi), and 
the Shalimar Gardens in Lahore were established – all of them inscribed as 
UNESCO world heritage sites (in 1982, 2007, and 1981).
This game symbolically deals with the era from Akbar to Shah Jahan.
These are a few elements significant for the era of the Great Moguls or for the 
India of today that are showcased in the game:
Kali – A Hindu goddess that represents destruction 
and renewal. Her destructive power, however, mainly 
targets demons and the injustice of the world. Popular 
belief is that she can grant wishes.
(Blue) Peafowl – Since 1963, the blue peafowl has 
officially been ranked among the national animals 
of India (besides the Bengal tiger and the Ganges 
river dolphin). Originally, it came from the Indian 
subcontinent where it is considered a sacred animal 
since it gives warning of tigers and severe weather 
and kills (young) poisonous snakes, among other things. Whereas the western 
world often associates the peafowl not only with beauty but also with 
arrogance and vanity, Indians primarily consider it a symbol of regality and 
immortality. Therefore, peacock statues were prominently designed also on the 
throne of the Mogul emperors.
Peacock Throne – The Peacock Throne was a throne 
chair decorated with an abundance of pearls, gold, 
and gems (more than 26,000) that was manufactured 
by order of Shah Jahan and inaugurated in 1635. 
The production took seven years and was said to 
have been twice as expensive as the construction of the Taj Mahal; this 
was considered very extravagant even for a Mogul emperor. Since the Red 
Fort (Delhi) was plundered in the 18th century, the Peacock Throne has been 
presumed lost.
Ashoka Pillar – The present coat of arms of India 
shows the adapted capital of an Ashoka pillar, the 
famous “Four Lions of Sarnath.” Erected around 250 
BC under Ashoka, the Indian ruler at that time, who 
had numerous monumental pillars set up during his 
reign at many strategic places, such as border towns and trade routes. Their 
capitals were used to proclaim his edicts. Some of these then-numerous and 
widespread pillars have been preserved down to the present day. They are 
silent witnesses of the bygone Great Indian Empire whose cultural heritage has 
stood the test of time.
Raja Man Singh I – Raja Man Singh I was an 
important commander of the imperial armed forces. 
As a governor of several provinces, he had forest areas 
cultivated for agricultural progress, commissioned a 
variety of palaces, forts, and temples to be built, and 
was even engaged as a city founder. Additionally, Man Singh I gained a high 
reputation for being a member of the Navaratnas, the “Nine Gems” of Akbar, a 
small group of extraordinary personalities at the Mogul emperor’s court.
Mogul Lexicon
CREDITS
© 2017 HUCH! 
Authors: Inka & Markus Brand
Illustration: Dennis Lohausen
3D: Andreas Resch
Design: HUCH!, atelier198
Product Manager: Britta Stöckmann
Editing: Frank DiLorenzo
English translation: Sybille & 
Bruce Whitehill, “Word for Wort”
Distributor USA:
R&R Games, Inc.
PO Box 130195
Tampa, FL 33681 
USA
Warning! Choking hazard. Not suitable for 
children under age of 3 due to small parts. 
Manufacturer + distributor: 
Hutter Trade GmbH + Co KG
Bgm.-Landmann-Platz 1-5 
89312 Günzburg, GERMANY
www.hutter-trade.com