Author: Gunter Baars · Illustration: Chris Mitchell, IDL, Mausreiter 
Design: IDL, Kinetic, DE Ravensburger, KniffDesign (game instructions) 
Editor: Lothar Hemme, Frank Weiß · Translation: Birgit Irgang
For 1 to 5 players ages 7 years and up
The immensely rich, but incredibly scatterbrained Pharaoh has accumulated riches both great and 
small and hid them all under his pyramids. The only problem is, he can’t remember where he’s 
hidden them all!
Lucky for him, you’re here to help him recover all his lost treasures!
CONTENTS
1 47 pyramids 
 (16 x gold, 16 x red, 15 x blue) 
2 30 search cards 
3 1 playing surface with 48 holes 
4 12 treasure cut-outs 
 (each with one treasure 
 and three empty spaces) 
5 21 chips 
 (5x scarabs, 3x curse of 
 the mummy, 13x explorers 
 with 1 to 3 hats) 
6 1 mummy
Note: This game includes game instructions for two different versions: 
the basic game and the version for professional treasure hunters. 
The game instructions for the basic game follow directly below 
and the instructions for the advanced level version are included 
at the end of these instructions.
GB

AIM OF THE BASIC GAME
Whoever finds the most of the Pharaoh’s 
treasures (the most valuable search cards), 
wins the game.
 
Put the 12 treasure 
cut-outs into the plastic 
game box insert so that 
all the slots are filled and 
all the treasures can be seen.
It is recommended to change the order of 
the treasure cut-outs before each game to 
keep things interesting and challenging. 
Then, lay the playing surface on top of the 
plastic game box insert.
GAME SETUP
When playing for the first time:
Carefully punch out the treasure 
cut-outs and the chips. 
Note: Do not throw away the playing 
surface (see illustration on right). 
Before each game:
Sort the 30 search cards according to the number on the 
back (1, 2, and 3). Shuffle each of the three stacks of cards 
separately before laying each stack, one on top of the 
other: Put the stack of cards with the 3 on the bottom, 
then put stack 2 on top of it, followed by the stack with the 
number 1 on top. The three stacks together make up the 
search card draw pile.

You should be able to see the treasures through the holes 
of the playing surface. Now randomly place the 
pyramids on the playing surface. One space will be left 
unoccupied so that the pyramids can be slid back and 
forth. Make sure that the space without a pyramid 
does not show a treasure.
The 21 chips are not needed in the basic game. Put them off to the side. Now turn the game 
around a few times on its axis so that no one can remember where the 
treasures are ... Now let the treasure hunt begin! 
ORDER OF PLAY
The bravest player begins, with play continuing in a 
clockwise direction. The first player turns over the top 
search card and lays it face up next to the draw pile so 
that everyone can see it. The card shows the treasure 
that you have to search for and its value (1 to 4).
The player then slides exactly one neighboring pyramid onto the previously free space. 
There are three possibilities:
1. No treasure is showing: 
The player can move another pyramid that borders 
the free space.
2. A treasure is showing, but not the right one: 
He’s out of luck! His turn is over. Now it’s the next 
player’s turn to search for the treasure showing 
on the card.
3. The correct treasure is showing: 
The player picks up the search card and lays it face down in front of him on the table. His 
turn is now over and the player to his left begins his turn. He turns over the next search 
card and tries to find the corresponding treasure among the pyramids.

You can move one pyramid after another until you either find the treasure you are looking 
for or some other treasure. Through trial and error, you get to know where the different 
treasures are buried and the path how to get there. Try to remember both.
Once you get to the search cards with the 2 on the back, the special actions 
come into play. These are indicated by a symbol on the back of some of the 
cards.
From now on, the following applies: If a player finds a treasure and wins a search card, first 
look at the back of the next card to see if one of these symbols appears:
Sand storm
Scorpion
Super powers
Duel
If there is a symbol, you must first carry out the special action, and only once you have 
completed it, does the game continue as normal. For all special actions: always the player to 
the left of the player who last moved a pyramid begins his turn after the special action has 
been completed. 
Overview of special action cards:
 
Sand storm: Turn the game on its axis by 90 degrees (one quarter turn) in a 
clockwise direction. Then turn over the search card as usual and continue 
the treasure hunt.
Scorpion: At first, do not turn over this card. The scorpion keeps watch over 
the Pharaoh’s treasure and will attack anyone who dares to touch his 
treasure. 
Starting with the player whose turn it is, everyone slides one pyramid each, one after the other. 
Be sure not to move the same pyramid that has just been moved by the previous player. 

Continue sliding one pyramid each until someone uncovers a treasure. The player who 
uncovered the treasure is stung by the scorpion and as a result must hand over one of his 
search cards to the player on his right. 
Then turn over the search card with the scorpion on its back and continue the game as 
normal.
Note: If the player who was stung by the scorpion does not yet have a search card that he can give to the other player, the 
player on his right gets a card from the top of the draw pile (the card with the scorpion on its back). The game then 
continues according to the normal rules. 
Super powers: Turn over the card as usual: Starting with the player whose 
turn it is, everyone receives super powers on his turn: When hunting for 
the right treasure, you can slide as many pyramids in a row as you like, 
instead of just one (i.e. 1 – 7 pyramids at once). This lets you cover greater distances at once 
and lets you move from one side of the playing surface to the other more quickly. If you 
happen to find the wrong treasure, your turn is over and the player to your left gets to try 
his luck with the super powers at finding the right treasure. Play continues in this way until 
one of you has found the right treasure. Then you all lose your super powers and play 
continues as usual.
Duel: At first, do not turn over this card. The player whose turn it is has to 
duel against the player on his left: 
Both players each lay down one of their search cards face up in front of 
them on the table. The treasures on the cards cannot be the same. If one of the players in 
the duel has not yet won a search card, he receives the search card directly beneath the duel 
card from the draw pile, which he lays down face up in front of him on the table. The player 
whose turn it is begins by sliding the pyramid according to the normal rules, trying to find 
the treasure of the other player. If he uncovers a wrong treasure, the other dueling player 
takes his turn and tries to find his opponent’s treasure. The player whose treasure is found 
first loses the duel (he also loses, of course, if he accidentally finds his own treasure!). The 
winner of the duel gets to keep both cards. 
After the duel, turn over the search card with the duel symbol on it and continue the game 
as normal.

END OF GAME
The game is over as soon as a player has won the last search card. Now everyone adds up 
the points on his search cards. The player with the most points wins the game. If more than 
one player has the same number of points, all involved players count their cards and the one 
with the most search cards wins. If they are still tied, all involved players win!
Note:
1. If you happen to turn over a search card that shows the treasure that is currently uncovered, you’re in luck! You get to 
keep the search card and your turn is over. 
2. If you want to play Ramses with younger children, play the game without the special actions with the lone exception 
of the Sand storm. 
GAME FOR EXPERT TREASURE HUNTERS
 
If you have already mastered the original game and want a bigger challenge, then you can 
start an expedition to search for your fellow explorer colleagues, who have gotten lost in the 
pyramids. The more explorers you find among the pyramids, the more successful you will 
be. But beware of the mummies!
GAME SETUP
The game setup is the same as for the original game with the following changes: 
Each player receives one scarab chip, which you lay down in front of you with the “2” facing 
up. If there are fewer than 5 players, put the remaining scarab chips off to the side.
Distribute the treasure cut-outs as in the original game and lay the playing surface on top.
Now lay the remaining 16 chips on the playing surface with the symbols facing up and cover 
them with the 16 golden pyramids. Move the 16 pyramids about so that no one remembers 
which chip is under which pyramid, and then spread them out evenly over the playing 
surface. It is best, if the gold pyramids are not in the corners.
Now add the red and blue pyramids. Keep the mummy next to the game, 
as you will need it later. Now shuffle and stack the search cards as in the 
original game, and the game can begin.

ORDER OF PLAY
All the rules from the original game stay the same. But there are two important additional 
rules: 
1. Now you can use the scarab.
2. If you find a treasure by moving a gold pyramid, you can tilt the pyramid to see what is 
beneath. 
Reminder: Do not forget to take the search card when you find the right treasure.
The chips and their meaning:
 
The scarab: The scarab lets you take an additional turn, two times throughout 
the course of the game. If you uncover the wrong treasure, you can use your 
scarab to take another turn. That means, you can move one pyramid after 
another until you uncover either another incorrect treasure or the treasure that you are 
looking for. When using your scarab for the first time, turn it over. When you use it a second 
time, put it off to the side and out of the game.
Curse of the mummy: If you run into the curse of the mummy, pick up the 
mummy from the side of the game box and put it down in front of you. But 
leave the chip itself under the pyramid. You lose your next turn. That means, on 
your next turn, put the mummy back next to the game box instead of taking your turn. As of 
now, you can play again. 
Note: If a player uncovers the curse of the mummy while you still have it in front of you, 
you’re in luck! You get to give the mummy to him and you no longer lose your turn.
Explorers: If you find a chip with one or more explorers on it, take the chip and 
lay it down in front of you. At the end of the game, the player with the most 
explorers receives an additional 6 points. 
The player with the second highest number of explorers receives an additional 3 points, and 
the player with the third highest number of explorers receives an additional 2 points. If 
more than one player has the same number of explorers, they all receive the full number of 
additional points and no points are awarded for the next highest total of explorers. 

VERSION FOR 1-PLAYER GAME
You can also challenge yourself to a game: The greater number of 
treasures you find, the greater your reward from the Pharaoh will be (see below)!
The game setup is the same as in the original game (no game materials from the expert 
version are needed). Of the special actions, only the Sand storm comes into play.
Turn over the first search card and lay it down face up in front of you. Search for the treasure 
showing on the card according to the rules in the original game. If you uncover the wrong 
treasure, you have to put the search card back into the game box and turn over another 
search card from the draw pile. Now try to find the treasure on the new search card.
If you find the right treasure that matches the treasure on your search card, you get to keep 
the card. Once all search cards from the draw pile have been turned over and used up, how 
many treasures were you able to find?
PHARAOH’S HALL OF FAME
 More than 20 search cards Pharaoh
19 or 20 cards High Priest
17 or 18 cards Grand Vizier
15 or 16 cards Master Builder
13 or 14 cards Royal Guard
11 or 12 cards Royal Embalmer
9 or 10 cards Scribe
 
7 or 8 cards Peasant
 
5 or 6 cards Nile Boatman
 
3 or 4 cards Camel Driver
 
1 or 2 cards Water Carrier
 
0 cards Desert Beetle
233907
© 1997/2006/2017
Imported into the UK by Ravensburger Ltd. · Units 3-5, Avonbury Business Park · Howes Lane · BICESTER · OX26 2UA · GB 
Ravensburger North America, Inc. · PO Box 22868 · Seattle WA 98122 · USA
ravensburger.com