A game by Bruno Cathala 
and Bruno Faidutti 
Illustrations by 
Vincent Dutrait
GAME OVERVIEW
A female velociraptor and her five babies are hunted by a team of scientists.
The player who controls the raptor family can win by killing the scientists, or by allowing three of the babies to take shelter 
deep into the jungle where nobody will ever find them. 
The player who controls the scientists must neutralize the mother or capture three of her babies. 
Present day, on an isolated island in the Pacific Ocean:
“Our advance scouts came back wounded, but they confirmed the rumors: 
dinosaurs still exist! A female velociraptor lives on this island with her 
children. We’ve seen five so far, but there might be more. Our mission: 
Capture at least three live baby raptors. This won’t be easy — the mother is 
fast, powerful, and protective of her offspring. It will be an epic challenge, 
but any scientist would love to be in my position. The expedition is about 
to land. Let the hunt begin!”
	
	
	
	
— Professor Lindenbrock, paleontologist
COMPONENTS
The Raptor player wins if:
• Three baby raptors have escaped from the board
• There are no more scientists on the board
The Scientist player wins if:
• The mother has 5 sleep tokens, which neutralizes her
• Three baby raptors have been captured
A game board 
made of:
• 6 large tiles with 9 
spaces
• and 4 L-shaped tiles 
with 3 spaces and 
one exit (half-space).
The board is double-
sided so that each side 
provides a different 
environment.
9 Action 
cards for 
the Raptor 
player
9 Action 
cards for 
the Scientist 
player
5 Baby Raptor 
Figurines
10 Fire 
Tokens
5 Sleep Tokens
9 Rocks
(made of 2 parts)
2 Player Aids
1 - Appel de la mère et mélange : 
Déplacez un jeune raptor éveillé pour 
l’amener sur la même tuile que la 
maman raptor. Ce déplacement doit se 
faire sans traverser de cases occupées 
ou en feu.
Ensuite, mélangez ensemble les cartes 
de votre pioche et de votre défausse 
pour constituer une nouvelle pioche. 
2 - Disparition et espionnage : Retirez 
la maman raptor du plateau de jeu. 
Après les actions du scientifique, repla-
cez-la sur une case libre de votre choix.
De plus, au prochain tour, le joueur 
scientifique vous montrera sa carte 
avant que vous ne choisissiez la vôtre. 
3 - Peur : Effrayez un scientifique de 
votre choix (couchez la figurine). Ce 
scientifique est inactif tant qu’il n’a pas 
été redressé. 
4 - Appel de la mère : Déplacez 1 ou 2 
jeunes raptors éveillés pour les amener 
sur la même tuile que la maman raptor. 
Ce déplacement doit se faire sans traver-
ser de cases occupées ou en feu.
5 - Récupération (x2) : Retirez 1 ou 
2 jetons Endormissement, ou réveillez 
deux jeunes raptors endormis (ou rendez 
un jeton et réveillez un jeune raptor). 
6 - Disparition + espionnage : Retirez 
la maman raptor du plateau de jeu. 
Après les actions du scientifique, repla-
cez-la sur une case libre de votre choix.
De plus, au prochain tour, le joueur 
scientifique vous montrera sa carte 
avant que vous ne choisissiez la vôtre. 
7 - Récupération (x3) : Retirez 1, 2 
ou 3 jetons Endormissement, ou réveil-
lez trois jeunes raptors endormis (ou 
toute combinaison des deux). 
8 - Peur (x2) : Effrayez un ou deux 
scientifiques de votre choix (couchez 
leurs figurines). Ces scientifiques sont 
inactifs tant qu’ils n’ont pas été re-
dressés. 
Pour 1 point d’action :
• Un jeune raptor se déplace vers une 
case libre voisine. 
• La maman raptor se déplace orthogo-
nalement, en ligne droite, d’autant de 
cases que souhaité tant qu’elle ne ren-
contre pas d’obstacle.
Attention : si l’on souhaite déplacer la 
maman raptor alors qu’elle est affaiblie, 
il faut dépenser 1 point d’action par bles-
sure avant le premier déplacement.
• La maman raptor élimine définitivement 
un scientifique sur une case voisine.
• La maman raptor réveille un jeune rap-
tor endormi sur une case voisine (sa figu-
rine est immédiatement redressée), mais 
pas durant le tour où il a été endormi.
• La maman raptor retire un jeton Feu sur 
une case voisine, ainsi que tous les jetons 
Feu qui lui sont orthogonalement reliés.
VICTOIRE SI :
Trois jeunes raptors se sont échappés
OU
Il n’y a plus de scientifiques 
sur le plateau de jeu
CARTES DU SCIENTIFIQUE
1 - Gaz anesthésiant 
et mélange
2 - Renforts
3 - Jeep (x2)
4 - Gaz anesthésiant (x2)
5 - Feux (x2)
6 - Renforts
7 - Feux (x3)
8 - Jeep (x4)
ACTIONS DU SCIENTIFIQUE
• Se déplacer
• Se redresser
• Tirer et endormir un jeune raptor
• Capturer un jeune raptor endormi
• Tirer sur la mère
JEUNES RAPTORS ÉCHAPPÉS :
DÉGÂTS ET MALUS EN POINTS D’ACTION
-1
-2
-3
DÉFAITE…
-4
1 - Gaz anesthésiant et mélange : 
Endormissez un jeune raptor se trou-
vant sur la même tuile que l’un de vos 
scientifiques, ou sur une tuile voisine. 
Couchez la figurine de ce jeune raptor. 
Ensuite, mélangez ensemble les cartes 
de votre pioche et de votre défausse 
pour constituer une nouvelle pioche.
2 - Renforts : Placez un ou deux 
scientifiques de votre réserve (s’il vous 
en reste) sur des cases libres situés sur 
les grands côtés du plateau de jeu.
3 - Jeep (x2) : Effectuez 1 ou 2 mou-
vements de Jeep. Chaque mouvement 
permet de déplacer un scientifique en 
ligne droite, d’autant de cases que 
souhaité, sans franchir d’obstacle*. Si 
la jeep traverse un feu alors ce dernier 
est éteint et enlevé du plateau.
4 - Gaz anesthésiant (x2) : Endor-
missez un ou deux jeunes raptors se 
trouvant sur la même tuile que l’un 
de vos scientifiques, ou sur une tuile 
voisine. Couchez les figurines de ces 
jeunes raptors.
5 - Feux (x2) : Placez 2 jetons Feu sur 
des cases vides du plateau. Chaque jeton 
Feu ne peut être placé que sur une case 
voisine à un scientifique ou à un jeton 
Feu déjà en place.
6 - Renforts : Placez un ou deux scien-
tifiques de votre réserve (s’il vous en 
reste) sur des cases libres situées sur les 
grands côtés du plateau de jeu. 
7 - Feux (x3) : Placez 3 jetons Feu sur 
des cases vides du plateau. Un jeton Feu 
ne peut être placé que sur une case or-
thogonalement adjacente soit à un scien-
tifique, soit à un jeton Feu déjà en place.
8 - Jeep (x4) : Effectuez jusqu’à 4 
mouvements de Jeep. Chaque mou-
vement permet de déplacer un scienti-
fique en ligne droite, d’autant de cases 
que souhaité, sans franchir d’obstacle*. 
Si la jeep traverse un feu alors ce der-
nier est éteint et enlevé du plateau.
Pour 1 point d’action :
• Un scientifique se déplace vers une 
case libre voisine.
• Un scientifique effrayé peut se redresser, 
mais pas lors du tour où il a été effrayé.
• Un scientifique capture un jeune raptor 
endormi sur une case voisine.*
• Un scientifique tire sur un jeune raptor 
éveillé se trouvant sur une case voisine. 
Le jeune raptor est alors endormi (sa fi-
gurine est couchée).*
• Un scientifique tire à distance sur la 
maman raptor – en ligne droite, si aucun 
obstacle ne bloque la ligne de vue.*
* Important ! Chaque scientifique ne 
peut effectuer qu’une seule action 
agressive (tir ou capture) par tour.
VICTOIRE SI :
La maman raptor a 5 jetons 
Endormissement
OU
Trois jeunes raptors ont été capturés.
CARTES DU RAPTOR
1 - Appel de la mère 
et mélange
2 - Disparition + espionnage 
3 - Peur
4 - Appel de la mère
5 - Récupération (x2)
6 - Disparition + espionnage
7 - Récupération (x3)
8 - Peur (x2) 
ACTIONS DU RAPTOR
• Déplacer un jeune raptor
• Déplacer la maman raptor
• Éliminer un scientifique
• Réveiller un jeune raptor
• Éteindre un feu
JEUNES RAPTORS CAPTURÉS :
SCIENTIFIQUES EN RÉSERVE
MUNITIONS CONTRE LA MÈRE
*Obstacles au tir et au déplacement : les rochers et 
les scientifiques actifs. 
Obstacles au déplacement seulement : Case en feu, 
scientifique effrayé, raptor (jeune et maman).
1 Mother 
Raptor 
Figurine
10 Scientist 
Figurines

SETUP
Setting up the board:
1) Choose one of the two environments for the game (jungle or savannah). Flip all ten tiles to that side.
2) Place the 6 square tiles randomly to create a 2-by-3 rectangle.
3) Place the 4 L-shaped tiles randomly along the shortest sides of the rectangle you created in step 2.
4) Place the 3D rocks on each space that does not show a circle or half-circle.
5) The Raptor player places the raptor figurines on the board, then the Scientist player places his figurines.
The Scientist players takes:
The Scientist Player Aid 
The 9 Scientist Action cards
The 10 Scientist Figurines
The 10 Fire Tokens 
The 5 Sleep Tokens (and places them on the top-
right corner of his player aid with the ammunition 
side up)
The Scientist player places one scientist on a space 
of his choice on each of the 4 L-shaped tiles. 
The remaining 6 scientists are placed next to the 
player aid to create the reserve.
The Raptor player takes:
The Raptor player aid 
The 9 Raptor Action cards 
The mother figurine
The 5 baby raptor figurines
The Raptor player places the mother and the babies 
on the board.
The mother raptor is placed on one of the two 
central tiles. 
The 5 baby raptor are distributed on the board, one 
on each of the remaining tiles. 
Each player shuffles his deck of Action cards and places it in front of him. }}
Then, each player draws the first three cards of his deck ~~
The first round can now start. 



}
~
u

~
}
Note: Throughout this document male pronouns are used for the sake of simplicity and readability. It should be clearly understood that in each instance, we 
mean to include female players as well.

GENERAL RULES
• There can never be two figurines or tokens on the same space. 
• Two spaces are considered to be adjacent if they are orthogonally next to each other. Diagonal adjacency is never taken into 
account, neither for moving, nor for shooting.
• The half-spaces represent the exits through which the baby raptors must escape. No other figurine or token (the mother, a 
scientist or a fire token) can be placed there. The ONLY way a baby raptor can move on such a space is by using the "Move a 
baby raptor" action.
PLAYING A ROUND
Each player chooses one of his three cards and places it face-down 
on the table. Then, both cards are revealed simulta-
neously. 
If both cards have the same value, they have no effect. 
The round ends immediately.
In most cases however, both cards have a different val-
ue. In that case, the player who played the card with 
the lowest value goes first and applies the effects of 
his card (effects must be applied, if possible). Then, 
his opponent receives a number of action points equal 
to the difference between the values of the two cards.
Important! The player who receives action points 
does not apply the effects of the card he played.
END OF THE ROUND
Each player draws a card to have three cards in hand, and the game continues with a new round. Round after 
round, the played action cards are placed visibly in front of each player, so that their values can be seen by the 
opponent.
If a player's deck is empty, he keeps the cards he has in hand, shuffles all his played cards to create a new 
deck, and then draws a card to have three cards in hand.
END OF THE GAME
The Raptor player wins immediately if:
• Three baby raptors have escaped
• There are no more scientists on the board
The Scientist player wins immediately if: 
• The mother has 5 sleep tokens, which neutralizes her
• Three baby raptors have been captured
Example: 
• The Scientist player played card 2: 
"Reinforcements" 
• The Raptor player played card 6: 
"Disappearance and Observation".
The Scientist player played the lowest value. He 
applies the effect of his card and adds two scientists 
on the board. 
The Raptor player can now spend 4 action points (6 
- 2) to perform actions using the mother and/or any 
active baby raptors.

RAPTOR PLAYER ACTIONS
As the Raptor player, you can spend action points as you like to perform actions using the mother 
raptor and any active baby raptors. 
A baby raptor is active if its figurine is standing up. A raptor can never move to or move through 
a space occupied by a fire token. 
You do not have to use all of your available actions points. In fact, you can choose not to use any 
action points at all.
You can spend action points in 5 different ways:
The player spends 3 
action points to move 
a baby raptor 3 spaces 
and allow it to escape.
The Raptor player wants 
to move the mother. 
Since she has 2 sleep 
tokens, he must first 
lose 2 action points 
before the first move. 
The player then spends 
2 more action points 
to move her twice in a 
straight line.
The Raptor player 
spends 1 action point 
and kills a scientist 
adjacent to the mother. 
That scientist is removed 
from the game.
A sleeping baby raptor is 
adjacent to the mother. 
For 1 action point, it 
wakes up and becomes 
active.
player can remove an 
adjacent fire token, as 
well as the 2 tokens 
that are orthogonally 
connected to it.
• Move a baby raptor
For one action point, move a baby raptor to a free adjacent space. 
If by doing so the baby is placed on one of the half-spaces of an 
L-shaped tile, it escapes; remove the figurine from the board.
• Move the mother raptor
For one action point, move the mother raptor in a straight line as 
many spaces as you like, or until she runs into an obstacle (i.e. a 
rock, a fire token, or another figurine).
If the mother is wounded: Before moving the mother raptor, 
lose as many action points as the number of sleep tokens on your 
player aid. If you do not have enough action points left after that, 
the mother raptor cannot move. 
• Kill a scientist
For one action point, kill a scientist located on a space adjacent to 
the mother raptor; remove the scientist figurine from the board and 
return it to the box. Only the mother can kill scientists. You may 
perform this action multiple times on the same turn.
• Wake up a baby raptor
For one action point, wake up a sleeping baby raptor located on a 
space adjacent to the mother raptor; stand the baby's figurine back 
up. The baby raptor is now active; it can immediately be moved by 
spending action points. You cannot wake up a baby raptor the same 
round it was put to sleep by a scientist
• Put out a fire
For one action point, put out a fire located on a space adjacent 
to the mother raptor; remove the fire token and all fire tokens 
connected to it orthogonally.

A baby raptor moves to the same tile as the mother. The other baby could 
not have been moved, since there is no valid path to the mother's tile.
RAPTOR CARD EFFECTS
1 - Mother's Call and Shuffle
Move an active baby raptor to a free space 
of your choice on the tile where the mother 
raptor is located (a baby that is already on the 
same tile as the mother can move to another 
space). The baby raptor cannot move through 
spaces that are occupied by a figurine or a 
fire token. Then, shuffle your deck and your 
played cards (including this card) to create a 
new deck.
2 - Disappearance and Observation
Remove the mother raptor from the board. 
Then, after the Scientist player has spent all 
of his action points, place her back on a free 
space of your choice.
The mother, hidden by the forest, observes 
the scientists; next round, the Scientist player 
shows you which card he has chosen before 
you choose yours. 
3 - Fear
Frighten one scientist of your choice; place 
its figurine on its side. This scientist becomes 
inactive (it cannot shoot, move, start a fire, 
or use sleeping gas) until it stands back up. 
The Scientist player must spend one action 
point to stand the figurine back up, but 
cannot do it this round.
4 - Mother's Call (x2)
Move one or two active baby raptors to 
a free space of your choice on the tile 
where the mother raptor is located (a 
baby that is already on the same tile as 
the mother can move to another space). 
These baby raptors cannot move through 
spaces that are occupied by a figurine or a fire 
token. 
5 - Recovery (x2)
Remove two sleep tokens from your player 
aid (give them back to the Scientist player 
who places them on the top-right corner of his 
player aid with the ammunition side up), or 
wake up two baby raptors (or remove 
one sleep token and wake up one baby). 
 
6 - Disappearance and Observation
Remove the mother raptor from the board. 
Then, after the Scientist player has spent all 
of his action points, place her back on a free 
space of your choice.
The mother, hidden by the forest, observes 
the scientists; next round, the Scientist player 
shows you which card he has chosen before 
you choose yours. 
7 - Recovery (x3)
Remove three sleep tokens from your player 
aid (give them back to the Scientist player 
places them on the top-right corner of his 
player aid with the ammunition side up), or 
wake up three baby raptors (or do a 
combination of both).
 
8 - Fear (x2)
Frighten one or two scientists of your choice; 
place each figurine on its side. These scientists 
become inactive (they cannot shoot, move, 
start a fire, or use sleeping gas) until they 
stand back up. The Scientist player must 
spend one action point to stand each figurine 
back up, but cannot do it this round. 
9 - No effect

SCIENTIST PLAYER ACTIONS
As the Scientist player, you can spend action points as you like to perform actions using any active 
scientist. 
A scientist is active if its figurine is standing up. Scientists can move through and shoot through a space 
occupied by a fire token, but they cannot end their movement on a space occupied by a fire token.
IMPORTANT: Each scientist can perform ONLY ONE aggressive action (shoot or 
capture) per round.
You do not have to use all of your available actions points. In fact, you can choose not to use any 
action points at all. 
You can spend action points in 5 different ways:
• Move a scientist
For one action point, move a scientist to an adjacent space that 
is not occupied by a raptor or another scientist. If that space is 
occupied by a fire token, you cannot end your movement in that 
space.
 
• Stand a scientist back up
For one action point, stand a frightened scientist's figurine back up. 
That scientist is now active; it can immediately be used to perform 
actions. You cannot stand a scientist back up the same round it was 
frightened.
• Put a baby raptor to sleep
For one action point, shoot a baby raptor located on a space 
adjacent to a scientist to put it to sleep; place its figurine on its side 
to show that the raptor is inactive and can be captured.
• Capture a sleeping baby raptor
For one action point, capture a sleeping baby raptor located on a 
space adjacent to a scientist; remove its figurine from the board and 
place it on the top-left corner of your player aid.
• Shoot the mother raptor
For one action point, use an active scientist to shoot the mother 
raptor. Scientists can shoot orthogonally in a straight line as far 
as desired, as long as there are no obstacles between the scientist 
and the mother raptor. Obstacles that block shooting are rocks and 
active scientists. Therefore, a scientist can shoot through spaces 
occupied by frightened scientists, fire tokens, or baby raptors. If you 
shoot the mother raptor, she is wounded; give one sleep token to 
the Raptor player who places it on the top-right corner of his player 
aid with the "Zzz" side up.
The player spends 2 
action points to move a 
scientist 2 spaces.
frightened scientist 
stands back up and 
can be used to perform 
actions.
For 1 action point, 
the scientist puts an 
adjacent baby raptor to 
sleep.
scientist captures a 
sleeping baby raptor 
located on an adjacent 
space. The baby is 
removed from the board.
scientist shoots the 
mother raptor who is in 
the line of sight.
The Raptor player 
receives 1 sleep token.

In this example, the Scientist player can place his reinforcements on 15 
different spaces (the empty spaces on the edges of the square tiles).
This scientist cannot put the baby raptor on the left to sleep, because it is 
not on the same tile or on an adjacent tile.
SCIENTIST CARD EFFECTS
1 - Sleeping Gas and Shuffle
Put a baby raptor to sleep. The baby raptor 
must be located on the same tile as a 
scientist or on an orthogonally adjacent tile; 
place the baby raptor figurine on its side. The 
Raptor player must spend one action point to 
stand the figurine back up, but cannot do it 
this round. Then, shuffle your deck and your 
played cards (including this card) to create a 
new deck.
2 - Reinforcements
Place one or two scientists from your reserve 
on empty spaces located along the long edges 
the board. You can place these scientists only 
on the square tiles (not on the L-shaped 
tiles). If you do not have any scientists in 
your reserve, you do nothing this round.
3 - Jeep (x2)
Move one or two scientists with a Jeep. When 
moving with a Jeep, a scientist can move in a 
straight line as many spaces as you like, as long 
as it does not run into an obstacle (i.e. a rock or 
another figurine). If the scientist moves through 
a space occupied by a fire token, the fire is put 
out; remove the fire token from the board. You 
may move the same scientist twice this round. 
4 - Sleeping Gas (x2)
Put one or two baby raptors to sleep. Each 
baby raptor must be located on the same tile 
as a scientist or on an orthogonally adjacent 
tile; place each baby raptor figurine on its 
side. The Raptor player must spend one 
action point to stand each figurine back up, 
but cannot do it this round.
5 - Fire (x2)
Place two fire tokens on free spaces of the 
board. A fire token can be placed only on a 
space adjacent to a scientist or another fire 
token (including one that was placed this 
round).
6 - Reinforcements
Place one or two scientists from your reserve 
on empty spaces located along the long edges 
the board. You can place these scientists only 
on the square tiles (not on the L-shaped 
tiles). If you do not have any scientists in 
your reserve, you do nothing this round. 
7 - Fire (x3)
Place three fire tokens on free spaces of the 
board. A fire token can be placed only on a 
space adjacent to a scientist or another fire 
token (including one that was placed this 
round). 
8 - Jeep (x4)
Move up to four scientists with a Jeep. When 
moving with a Jeep, a scientist can move in a 
straight line as many spaces as you like, as long 
as it does not run into an obstacle (i.e. a rock or 
another figurine). If the scientist moves through 
a space occupied by a fire token, the fire is put 
out; remove the fire token from the board. You 
may move the same scientists multiple times. 
 
9 - No effect

A FEW 
REMINDERS
You can never move a figurine or shoot diag-
onally.
A single space can never be occupied by two 
figurines, and a figurine can never move 
through a space occupied by another figurine, 
even if they are on the same side.
Only the player who played the card with the 
lowest value applies the effect of his card. Only 
the player who played the card with the highest 
value receives and spends action points.
If the mother raptor is wounded, the Raptor play-
er can move her only after losing as many action 
points as there are sleep tokens on his player aid.
Each scientist on the board can perform only 
one aggressive action per turn (put a baby rap-
tor to sleep, capture a sleeping baby raptor, or 
shoot the mother raptor) 
When you put out a fire with the mother raptor, 
remove the fire token and all adjacent fire tokens 
connected to it.
Sleeping baby raptors and frightened scientists 
cannot stand back up the same round they 
were put to sleep or frightened.
When a scientist drives a Jeep (cards 3 and 8), 
remove all fire tokens located on spaces it moves 
through.
The scientist reinforcements (cards 2 and 6) can-
not be placed on the L-shaped tiles.
The effect of a Recovery card (cards 5 and 7) 
can be split between the mother and one or more 
baby raptors. 
When a scientist is killed, it is removed from the 
game; return it to the box, not to the reserve.
ADVICE TO A SCIENTIST WHO JUST 
GRADUATED.
Your brilliant studies might have taught you how to solve any triple integral you 
might run into, but you are not really (not at all, actually) prepared to face the 
scary Raptors that inhabit this forsaken island.
As a first step, your goal is... to survive!
Here are a few elementary tips that might be of helpful to you: 
The law of large numbers
Bringing in reinforcements is vital, otherwise you might be eradicated from the 
board and defeated.
Unity is strength
Each scientist can perform only one aggressive action per turn. If you move your 
scientists in teams of two, it is possible to capture a baby in a single turn. The first 
scientist can put it to sleep and the second scientist can then capture it. 
Nice and slow
Your biggest enemy is the mother raptor. She is fast, ruthless, stealthy, and won't 
stop devouring you. Slowing her down is therefore very important. Do not hesitate 
to target her as quickly as possible with one or two shots. It will calm her down...
Dead end
Make a smart use of fire to block the escape routes. Only the mother can put down 
the fire. The longer the game lasts, the better the chances are for the scientists to 
win... So slow down the enemy as much as possible!
ADVICE TO AN ANGRY RAPTOR
There you were, living a peaceful life, and suddenly, Crash! A horde of unknown 
bipeds with engines invade your territory... And on top of that, they are after your 
babies... Fools! They might not have realized they were edible!
Out to lunch
To put some pressure on the invaders, one working trick is to chew on some of them 
as early as possible. If possible, on the same side of the board, in order to make 
room for your babies.
Make yourself forgotten
Make clever use of your two Disappearance cards to reappear on the other side of the 
board and peek at your opponent's next move before choosing your action.
Gather round!
Then, use your mother's call to bring your babies under your protection, if possible, 
close to an exit free of scientists.
Whether you are Raptor or Scientist…
Playing your cards of value 1 and 2 at the right time (when your 
opponent plays a card of value 3 to 5) can give you an advantage... 
It allows you to play your "weak" cards without giving many action 
points to your opponent.