14+
2 to 9
45-60’
RULEBOO
ULEBOOK

-3 1x
-1 2x
-6 2x
-5 3x
-3 3x
Exotic
Finish
Race 1
Race 2
Race 3
Race 4
VIP
6x
All horses move 6 or 
more spaces.
Risky
Gambler
Risky
Gambler
For each winning bet you 
placed, gain $2 from the supply.
For each losing bet you placed, 
pay $1 to the supply.
-
1 Bet Board
1 Race Track 
Board
2 Dice
9 Horse 
Meeples
28 Prop Bet 
Cards
5 Exotic Finish 
Cards
32 VIP Cards
6 Win, Place, 
Show Tokens
40 Player Bet 
(in 8 player colors)
12 Bonus Bet 
You’re off to the races in
Ready Set Bet! 
Do you bet early to lock in the best odds or do you wait and 
see how the race develops and bet in the last few seconds? The 
choice is yours in this game of real-time horse race betting.
Gameplay Overview
Ready Set Bet is played over 4 rounds. Each round consists 
of players betting on a single horse race while the action is 
happening. After each race, players win or lose money for their 
placed bets. Players also earn VIP rewards and bet on exotic 
finishes to enhance their experience. After 4 rounds, the player 
with the most money wins!
Ready Set Bet App:
alderac.com/ready-set-bet/
Everything you need to play Ready Set Bet is already in the box, but there is an app available to roll the dice and run the 
race for you, replacing the need for a House player. Visit the web address above for all of your platform options!
6 House Bet 
55 - $1 
48 - $5 
32 - $25 
8 - $100 
Components

-3 1x
-1 2x
-6 2x
-5 3x
-3 3x
Exotic
Finish
Race 1
Race 2
Race 3
Race 4
VIP
by exactly 1 space.
-6
-
7-8 Players
Place the Bet Board in the center of the table.
Shuffle the Prop Bet Cards and place the deck face-down on the 
Prop Bets space at the top of the Bet Board. Then draw the top 5 
cards from the deck and place them face-up on the blank spaces 
to the right.
Shuffle the Exotic Finish Cards and place the deck face-down 
on the Exotic Finish space at the bottom left of the Bet Board. 
Draw the top card and place it face-up on the Race 1 space to the 
right of the deck.
Shuffle the VIP Cards and place the deck face-down on the VIP 
space at the bottom right of the Bet Board.
Place the Money Chips in a supply near the Bet Board.
Place the black and white Bonus Bet Tokens near the Bet Board.
Select someone to be in charge of running the horse races and 
place the Race Track Board near them. This person is called the 
House. Unless you choose to use one of the House variants on 
page 8, this person does not compete in the game and instead 
facilitates the game by conducting and announcing the horse 
races.
Give the House player the 2 Dice and the 9 Horse Meeples. They 
place the horses on the green starting gate spots corresponding 
to their numbers on the left side of the Race Track Board.
Each non-House player takes a set of 5 Player Bet Tokens in the 
same color. If there are 7 or 8 non-House players, each player 
returns one of their number 3 tokens to the box.
Place the 6 Win, Place, and Show Tokens near the Bet Board.
If the House player wishes to compete in the game in addition to 
running the horse races, give them the 6 House Bet Tokens. (See 
page 8 for House variants.)
Setup
For a less complex game, you may choose not to play with the Prop Bet Cards, Exotic Finish Cards, and/or VIP Cards.

A roll of 6 moves 
the 6 horse
1 space forward.
A roll of 3 moves 
the 2/3 horse.
The very next roll is 
a 2. The 2/3 horse 
moves 1 space plus 
its Bonus Move of 3 
spaces for a total 
of 4 spaces.
Round Overview
• Running a Race • The House player begins the horse race.
• Placing Bets • Players place bets during the race.
• Resolving Bets • At the end of the race, players resolve their bets.
• Cleanup • Take care of all cards and reset the race track.
Running a Race
The player acting as the House can simply facilitate the game by 
conducting and announcing the races or they can compete in 
the game as well by using the House Bet Tokens, placing their 
bets on the Bet Board before the race starts. (See “House Bets 
Variant” on page 8.) If the app is being used, it will run all the 
races and no House player is needed.
The House announces the beginning of the race by exclaiming, 
“And they’re off!” 
The House rolls the 2 dice together, announces the sum total of 
the roll so all players can hear, and moves the corresponding 
Horse Meeple 1 space to the right, plus any Bonus Moves. The 
House continues to roll, announce, and move the horses at a fast 
pace while the players place their bets.
Bonus Moves
There is a Bonus Move value indicated to the left of the starting 
gate for each horse, except the 7 horse, which has no bonus.
A Bonus Move is triggered when the same number is rolled twice 
in a row. The red 6 and 8 horses move 1 additional space, the 
orange 5 and 9 horses move 2 additional spaces, and the blue 
2/3, 4, 10, and 11/12 horses move 3 additional spaces.
The Bonus Move is triggered for the 2/3 and 11/12 horses when 
either of their numbers is rolled back-to-back. For example, if a 
3 is rolled, then the Bonus Move is triggered if the next number 
rolled is a 2 or a 3.
A Bonus Move is NOT triggered on a third consecutive roll. In the 
example shown above, if a 2 or 3 is rolled on the third roll, the 
Bonus Move is not triggered and the 2/3 horse only moves the 
normal 1 space to the right. 
However, if a 2 or 3 is rolled on a fourth consecutive roll, a new 
Bonus Move is triggered, as the third and fourth roll form a new, 
separate back-to-back roll.
The House
In addition to rolling the dice, announcing the result, and 
moving the horses on the track, the House player is encouraged 
to embellish their rolling with as much fast-paced sports 
announcing and commentary as they want. Call out interesting 
developments like lead changes, horses pulling away from the 
pack or falling behind, and all Bonus Moves! 
The House also has the following responsibilities:
•	 The House should be sure to call out “Snake Eyes!” for rolls 
of 2 and “Boxcars!” for rolls of 12, as certain VIP Cards give 
bonuses to players for those rolls. Call out all other numbers 
clearly as well, so players can track other VIP Cards looking for 
them.
•	 The House should keep players aware of how close the “No 
more bets!” call is looming by announcing each time a horse 
crosses the RED LINE on the Race Track Board. When the 
THIRD horse crosses the RED LINE, The House should shout 
loudly and clearly, “No more bets!” When that is announced, 
players are not allowed to place any further Bet Tokens.
End of Race
Once a horse reaches the finish line (the 15th space), the race 
ENDS IMMEDIATELY. If not already announced, no more Bet 
Tokens are allowed to be placed on the Bet Board. All horses 
should be left where they are on the race track for resolving bets. 
The House marks the horses on the Bet Board with the Win, 
Place, and Show Tokens, as explained on page 6.

The violet player may place 3 tokens on the 3 
different open spots for the 2/3 horse to win.
The violet player may NOT place multiple 
tokens on the same spot.
The violet player may NOT place a token 
where another player’s token is already 
placed.
The violet player collects their 5 Bet Token.
If the 2/3 horse won: They collect $45 (9 x 5) in 
money chips from the supply.
If the 2/3 horse did not win: They pay $2 to the 
supply, indicated by the “-2” in the red circle.
Placing Bets
Each non-House player has a set of Bet Tokens numbered 2, 3, 
3, 4, and 5, which they can use to place bets in each race. (In a 
7-player or 8-player game, each non-House player has one fewer 3 
Bet Token.)
While a race is in progress—and BEFORE “No more bets!” is 
called or a horse reaches the finish line— players may place each 
of their Bet Tokens onto any open Bet Spot on the Bet Board. 
There is no turn order; bets are placed simultaneously and are 
first come, first served.
Players may place their Bet Tokens as quickly or as slowly as they 
like during each race. Players may not place a Bet Token on a Bet 
Spot where another Bet Token was already placed. Once a Bet 
Token is placed, it may not be moved or removed.
Resolving Bets
At the end of a race, all players gain or lose money for their 
winning or losing bets.
Players should first collect all their winning Bet Tokens from the 
Bet Board along with the corresponding payouts from the supply 
of money chips. Then players should collect all their losing Bet 
Tokens and pay the corresponding amounts in money chips to 
the supply. All players may do this simultaneously.
A winning bet pays out money equal to the value of the Bet 
Token multiplied by the number printed in front of the “X” on 
the Bet Spot where it was placed.
For a losing bet, a player instead pays money to the supply as 
indicated by the negative number printed in the red circle on the 
Bet Spot, regardless of the value of the Bet Token. If there is no 
red circle on that spot, then the player does not pay any money 
to the supply. If a player has lost all their money chips, they owe 
nothing further and do not go into the negative.
New Player Tip:
Within the Show, Place, and Win columns, the 
spots to the RIGHT have better payouts and/or 
fewer losses.

-6
Clear 1st, 2nd, 3rd (no ties):
Tie for 2nd (and thus 3rd):
Do not use 
.
Tie for 3rd:
Use the 6 Win, Place, and Show Tokens to help track which 
horses pay out for which bets. (2nd and 3rd are double-sided.)
Win, Place, and Show Bets
Players can bet on horses to Win, Place, or Show by placing a Bet 
Token on the corresponding Bet Spot. The rows correspond to 
the different horse numbers, while the columns correspond to 
the different bets of Show, Place, or Win:
•	 WIN is a bet that a horse will finish in 1st place. There are three 
Win Bet Spots for each horse, each with differing payouts and 
losses. 
•	 PLACE is a bet that a horse will finish as one of the top 2 
horses. There are two Place Bet Spots for each horse, each 
with differing payouts and losses. 
•	 SHOW is a bet that a horse will finish as one of the top 3 
horses. There are two Show Bet Spots for each horse, each with 
differing payouts and losses. 
Thus, the horse that finishes in 1st place is considered to Win, 
Place, AND Show, and pays out for all Win, Place, and Show 
bets made on it. All horses that finish or tie for 2nd place are 
considered to Place AND Show.
If 2 or more horses tie for 2nd place, they are all considered to 
finish in 2nd and 3rd place, and any horses behind them do NOT 
Show. Otherwise, all horses that finish or tie for 3rd place are 
considered to Show, and pay out for all Show bets made on them.
Color Bets
The 3 Bet Spots on the left pay out if any horse of the corresponding 
color finishes in 1st place. 
The rightmost Bet Spot pays out if the 7 horse finishes in 5th 
place or worse (i.e., if there are 4 or more horses who finish 
ahead of it). As normal, only 1 Bet Token is allowed per spot.
For each race, there will be 5 different Prop Bet Cards placed 
face-up at the top of the Bet Board. Each card functions as an 
additional Bet Spot. As normal, only 1 Bet Token is allowed per 
card. These are bets that one horse will finish ahead of another 
horse or a group of horses of the same color at the end of the 
race. If the horses in question end the race tied, it is considered 
a losing bet.
After the bets are resolved at the end of each race, deal 5 new 
Prop Bet Cards face-up so that a new set is used for each of the 
4 races.
For example, the first card shown above is a bet that the 2/3 
horse will finish ahead of the 8 horse. The second card is a bet 
that the 7 horse will finish ahead of ALL 4 blue horses (2/3, 4, 
10, and 11/12 horses).

6x
All horses move 6 or 
more spaces.
Late Start
Late Start
At least 2 horses move
3 or fewer spaces.
Photo Finish
Photo Finish
The 3rd place horse loses 
by 3 or fewer spaces.
by exactly 1 space.
Blow Out
Blow Out
by more than 5 spaces.
Gain an extra Bet Token:
-5 loss is in addition to loss 
on Bet Spot.
Bonus Bet
Token
White 7
Bonus Bet
Token
White 7
&
Snake Eyes
& Boxcars
Snake Eyes
& Boxcars
Win $1 every time a 2 or 
12 is rolled.
Piggyback 
Bet: 3
Piggyback 
Bet: 3
Once per race you may 
place your 3 Bet Token 
on a spot with one 
opponent’s Bet Token.
Complimentary
Complimentary
When you play this card, 
gain $ if this VIP Card is 
your:
1st Card 
2nd Card 
3rd Card 
Exotic Finish Bets
Each of the 5 Exotic Finish Cards has 3 active Bet Spots for 
players to place their Bet Tokens. A player may NOT place more 
than 1 of their Bet Tokens on a single Exotic Finish Card.
During setup for the 1st race, 1 Exotic Finish Card is placed face-
up at the bottom of the Bet Board. After the bets are resolved for 
each race, 1 additional Exotic Finish Card should be drawn from 
the deck and placed face-up to the right of the previous card, 
adding a new bet for each race. By the start of the 4th race, there 
should be 4 total face-up Exotic Finish Cards.
•	 Photo Finish: Remember, if horses tie for 2nd they are 
considered also to tie for 3rd.
Cleanup
For rounds 1-3, after all players have resolved their bets, do the 
following:
•	 Replace the 5 Prop Bet Cards. (See “Prop Bets” on page 6.)
•	 Reveal an additional Exotic Finish Card. (See “Exotic Finish 
Bets” above.)
•	 Deal 2 VIP Cards to each player, who chooses 1 to keep (See 
“VIP Cards” below.)
•	 Reset the horse meeples on the Race Track Board.
VIP Cards
There are 32 VIP Cards that were shuffled and placed on the 
board during setup. After the 1st race is over and players have 
resolved all their bets, deal 2 VIP Cards face-down to each player. 
Players should review these cards and pick 1 to keep and 1 to 
discard to a collective discard pile.
Players place the VIP Card they chose face-up in front of them 
and gain the benefit of that card for the rest of the game.
Repeat this process after the 2nd and 3rd races as well. This 
means players should have 2 VIP Cards in play for the 3rd race 
and 3 cards for the 4th race. Players retain all benefits of their 
cards for each race. If the VIP deck runs out of cards, shuffle the 
discard pile to create a new deck.
Some VIP Cards allow players to break certain rules of the game, 
such as placing a specified Bet Token on top of another player’s 
Bet Token or placing bets even after 3 horses have crossed the 
red line. When the normal rules and the text on a VIP Card 
conflict, the text on the VIP Card prevails.
·	 Complimentary Chips gives a one-time payout when played, 
but the player still keeps the card in front of them.
·	 Piggyback Bet can apply to a Bonus Bet Token of the 
corresponding number.
Bonus Bet Tokens
Some VIP Cards give players a black or white Bonus Bet Token. 
Players should add the corresponding Bet Token to their regular 
set of Bet Tokens for the remainder of the game and keep the VIP 
Card face-up in front of them, so everyone knows which Bonus 
Bet Token is theirs.
The large number on these tokens work just like the number 
on the Player Bet Tokens: Winning bets are multiplied by this 
number. Most of the Bonus Bet Tokens have a red circle on them. 
If the bet placed with this token is a losing bet, the player must 
pay both the amount shown on the Bet Spot’s red circle AND the 
amount shown on the Bonus Bet Token’s red circle.
The Bonus Bet Tokens with a value of 2 have a special 
 symbol 
on them. This symbol negates the losing value of any Bet Spot it 
is placed on, meaning the player will not pay any money to the 
supply for a losing bet made with this token.
Game End
After the 4th race is over and all players have resolved their bets, 
players should count up all their money. The player with the most 
money wins! In the case of a tie, all tied players share the victory.

House Rotation Variant
(2-8 Players)
In this variant, the House player potentially changes for 
each race.
Randomly determine who will be the first House player. 
The House player uses the 6 House Bet Tokens as 
detailed in the House Bets Variant. After each race, the 
current House player may choose to remain the House 
player for the next race. If they don’t, the player to their 
left—and continuing in clockwise order around the 
table—has the option to become the House player.
If no one accepts, the player to the left of the current 
House player must become the House player. 
For the round in which a player is the House, they are 
not able to use their VIP Cards. However, at the end of 
the round, they will draw and select a VIP Card along 
with the other players as normal for use in future 
rounds. (Exception: If the House player chooses to keep 
the Complimentary Chips card, that card is resolved 
immediately.)
As compensation for not getting to use their VIP Cards, 
the House player gains from the supply $3 in round 2, 
$6 in round 3, and $9 in round 4. This occurs before the 
start of the race in those rounds.
Credits
Game Design - John D Clair
Director of Projects - Nicolas Bongiu
Production - David Lepore
Development Lead - Kirk W Buckendorf
Graphic Design - Kirk W Buckendorf
Rules Editor - Andre Chautard
Illustrations - Athena Cagle & Kirk W Buckendorf
©2022 Alderac Entertainment Group
Ready Set Bet and all related marks are ™, ©, and ® Alderac Entertainment Group, Inc. or John D Clair.
2505 Anthem Village Drive, Suite E-521, Henderson, NV 89052
All rights reserved. Printed in China.
Warning: Choking hazard! Small parts. Not for use by children under 3 years of age.
Visit our website at www.alderac.com/ready-set-bet
Questions? https://alderac.com/customer-service
Copyright & Contact
Playtesters
Csilla Clair, Shannon Clair, Matthew Clair, Katalin Balogh, Eva 
Balogh, Leon Blight, Christopher Buckley, Avery Sakamoto, Ben 
Lesel, Yan Yan, Paul Alewitz, Sean Growley, Andy McGuire, Chris 
Buskirk, Michael Kutan, Eric Martinez, Erik Lima, Dwight Stone, 
Mike Rizzo, Dino De Blasio, Thomas Raben, Neil Kimball, Vladimir 
Orellana, Josh Wood, Mark Wootton, John Goodenough, Kyle 
Nunn, Luke Peterschmidt, John Zinser, Kaz Nyborg-Anderson, 
Todd Rowland, Ashwin Kamath, Amanda Wong, Zane Messina, 
Matthew Ransom, Theodore Coyer, Ketan Deshpande, Francisco 
“Paco” Rojas, Karan Tolani
House Bets Variant
(2-9 Players)
If the House also wants to compete in the game, 
before each race starts they take the 6 House Bet 
Tokens and place them in the upper left corner of 6 
different Bet Spots on the Bet Board of their choice 
(including Prop Bet Cards and Exotic Finish Cards), 
so as not to obscure the numbers printed on those 
spots. 
When the race starts, those Bet Spots are still 
considered open and the other players may place 
their Bet Tokens there as usual.
At the end of each race, the House Bet Tokens are 
resolved in the same way as the Player Bet Tokens.
The House player starts the game with $18 and does 
not draw any VIP Cards during the game.
App Variant
(2-8 Players)
If you choose to run the race using the app, there 
will be no House player. (See page 2.)