R I C H A R D U L R I C H & WO L FGA N G K R A M E R

THE GAME OF PATRONS, ARTISTS, AND SCHOLARS!
Experience the golden age of the Renaissance. 
Assume the role of the head of an Italian Aristocratic dynasty 
and lead your family like the Medici or Borgia. The players support the
builders, artists, and scholars so that their completed works will bring
their families fame and prestige. As the patrons of the creators of great
works, the players seek to multiply their fame and reputations, 
but only one will become the most prestigious prince of Florence! 
OVERVIEW
The 3 to 5 players - over seven rounds - build Buildings, cultivate
Landscapes, and invite artists and scholars to their Palazzi where they
provide them with the facilities which inspire such people to produce
great Works. All this is done by the players in their Principalities to earn
Prestige points (PP), which are recorded on the fame track. 
The more impressive a Work, that is, the higher its Work Value (WV), the
more money and Prestige the player in whose Principality the Work is
created is able to earn. Money is important to acquire more Buildings
and Landscapes. Also, the Builders and Jesters, which provide valuable
services, expect to be paid. Players will also find that Prestige and Bonus
cards have great value in building their reputations and fame.
The player who, after seven rounds, has earned the most PP, is the
winner! 
CONTENTS
1 game board
with fame track and round/minimum WV table
5 player boards with the players’ Principalities, places for placing 
Builder, Jester, and Freedom tiles, and rule summary
30 Buildings
3 each of University, Laboratory, Workshop, Library,
Opera, Studio, Hospital, Theater, Tower, and Chapel 
18 Landscapes
6 each of Forest, Lake, and Park 
12 Freedoms
rectangular tiles: 4 each of Travel, Religion, and
Opinion
6 Builders
square tiles
7 Jesters
round tiles
66 cards
21 Profession cards, 14 Prestige cards, 20 Bonus cards,
and 5 Recruiting cards, 6 special character cards for 
"The Muse and the Princess Expansion" ( page 14 to 16).
money
27 @ 100, 12 @ 500, and 14 @ 1,000 Florin
6 figures
5 scoring figures and 1 starting player figure
6 markers
5 player markers and 1 round marker
OVERVIEW
The players invite artists and
scholars to their Palazzi and
inspire them to create great
Works.
The more impressive a Work,
the more money and Prestige
it brings a player. 
Buildings and Landscapes
support the Works. Builders
and Jesters support those who
create the Works
The player with the 
most PP is the winner.

place game board on table
The graphics on the game board
spaces are only for appearance.
They have no meaning in the game.
Sort out the 6 special
character cards and put them
back in the box. These are only
needed for the expansion game
per player:
- 1 player board 
- 1 marker 
- 1 figure 
- 3 Profession cards 
- 3500 Florin 
Each player’s money supply is
private
remaining money = the Bank
for Auction phase, left
of the game board:
Forests
Builders
Lakes
Parks
Jesters
for Action phase, right
of the game board:
Buildings
Profession cards
Freedoms
Bonus cards
1) In a game with three players, use
only 2 Religion tiles, 2 Opinion
tiles, and 2 Travel tiles.
Place round marker 
on space 1. 
Place starting player figure in
front of the oldest player.
Place the game board in the middle of the table. 
Note: if, during the game, a player’s scoring figure passes space 50 on the
fame track, he records this fact and continues moving along the track. At the
end of the game, such players add 50 PP to the number of points shown by
their figures on the track. 
Each player takes:
• One player board, which he places in front of himself on the table. 
The board determines the player’s color.
• The marker, in his color, which he places next to his player board.
• The figure, in his color, which he places on space “0/50” on the fame
track. Players track their scores with their figures.
• Three Profession cards, in the following way: shuffle the 21 Profession
cards and deal 4 face down to each player. From these 4 cards, each
player chooses 3 to be his starting hand and returns the 4th. 
Shuffle the undealt and unchosen Profession cards together and place
them face down near the game board as shown below. 
• 3500 Florin starting money (2 @ 1000, 2 @ 500, and 5 @ 100)
Place the remaining money, as “the Bank“, next to the board as shown
below. 
Arrange the other pieces, next to the game board, as shown below:
• Auction phase • Action phase
Note: the number of each type of Freedom tile available is equal to the
number of players minus one 1). Place the extra Freedom tiles back in the box. 
Place the black round marker on space “1“ of the round/minimum WV
table.
Place the black starting player figure in front of the starting player (the
oldest player) for the first round.
Forests
Lakes
Parks
Bank
large Buildings
medium Buildings
small Buildings
Freedoms
Profession cards (face down)
Bonus cards (face down)
Jesters
Builders
Prestige cards (face down)
Recruiting cards (face up)

7 rounds, each with 2 phases:
Auction phase: auction 1 object
Action phase: execute 2
actions
auction 1 object
(Forest, Lake, Park, Jester, Builder,
Prestige card or Recruiting card)
each player: at most 1 object
from each stack: at most 1
object
flow of an auction:
- on the player’s turn, he
chooses an object to auction
- in clockwise order, players
bid or pass
- the highest bidder pays the
Bank and takes the object
- the player and stack are
excluded from later auctions
(stacks with player markers)
For the player who starts an
auction the following applies:
- Regardless of desires to the
contrary, he starts the bid for the
object at 200 Florin by naming it!
- He may remove himself from all
bidding and from acquiring an
object in this round by not
naming an object on his turn!
Thus, the player may not even bid
on an object named by another
player later in the round.
The last player to start an
auction in the Auction phase,
does not start an auction, but
may take any available object
for 200 Florin!
The game is played over 7 rounds. The starting player changes from
round to round in clockwise order. The game ends after the 7th round.
Each round has 2 phases:
• Auction phase: auction 1 object per player 
• Action phase: execute 2 actions per player
The players bid against each other for objects in the Auction phase. Then,
they execute actions in the Action phase, separately, in clockwise order. 
Central to the Auction phase are the 7 stacks with the different “objects”
that are to the left of the game board: Forests, Lakes, Parks, Jesters,
Builders, Prestige cards, and Recruiting cards. The different objects give
the players who have them specific advantages throughout the game. 
Basic rules
• Each player may acquire, at most, 1 object each round. After a player
has an object, he may not bid for other objects in the round.
• From each stack, only 1 object may be auctioned each round. After an
object has been acquired, no more from that stack may be auctioned in
the round.
• When a stack is exhausted, no more of that type may be auctioned.
Flow of the Auction phase
The starting player begins by choosing an object from one of the 7 stacks.
By choosing an object, he automatically starts the bidding at 200 Florin. 
Then, in clockwise order, the players may bid on the object by increasing
the current bid by exactly 100 Florin. The starting player must start the
bid at 200 Florin - no more and no less. All subsequent bid increases must
be exactly 100 Florin - no more and no less. If a player cannot or does not
want to bid, he passes, but then may not bid on this object this round.
The bidding continues, in clockwise order, until all have passed, but one.
That player, with the highest bid, pays the bid amount to the Bank (the
other players pay nothing), takes the object, and places his marker on the
stack. The marker indicates that, for the rest of this round, no object may
be auctioned from this stack and this player may not bid on any objects. 
If the player, who started the auction, is not the highest bidder in the
auction, he chooses another object to auction from those available
(objects with markers and empty stacks are not available) and begins a
new auction for this object by bidding 200 Florin. The rules for this
auction are the same as before. 
If the player, who started the auction, is the highest bidder in the auction,
the next available player (players with markers on stacks are not
available), in clockwise order, chooses an object to auction from those
available (objects with markers and empty stacks are not available). The
rules for this auction are the same as before. 
In each auction, all players may bid, except those who have already
acquired an object this round (they have markers on the stacks). 
When there is only one player who has not acquired an object this round
(excluding players who passed their opportunity to name an object), he
may simply pay the Bank 200 Florin to take any one available object
(objects with markers and empty stacks are not available) of his choice.
He is not required to do this; he may pay nothing and take nothing.
After all players have acquired objects or chosen not to acquire objects
this round, the Auction phase ends and all players take back their
markers from the object stacks. 

1st auction: 
Anna 200
2nd auction: 
David 700
3rd auction: 
Bob 600
no auction: 
Chris 200
A Forest increases the WV by 3
for Works from 9 of the 21
Professions
All additional Forests earn the
player 3 PP 
2) Note: not all additional landscapes
earn players the 3 PP. Only additional
landscapes of types already played in
the Principality earn the players the 3
PP bonus.
For example, a player who has only a
Lake and acquires a Forest or a Park
does not earn 3 PP. However, if that
player acquires a second Lake, he earns
the 3 PP bonus.
Like a Forest, but only 
attracts 7 Professions
Like a Forest, but only 
attracts 5 Professions
Example: 
(1) In a game with four players, Anna is the starting player. She names a
Park and she gets it for the base price of 200 Florin, as all the other
players pass instead of bidding. 
She takes and places a Park and places her marker on the Park stack.
This shows that the Park stack is unavailable for later auctions this
round and that Anna is not allowed to bid in later auctions this round. 
(2) Bob is the next player in clockwise order and chooses to auction a Jester.
Chris is also interested and bids 300 Florin. David also wants the Jester
and bids 400 Florin. Now it is Bob’s turn again (remember, Anna cannot
bid) and he raises the bid to 500 Florin. Chris raises the bid to 600 and
David to 700. Bob and Chris both pass, allowing David to win the
auction. David pays 700 Florin to the Bank, takes a Jester, and puts his
marker on the Jester stack. 
(3) Bob may again choose the auction object as he did not win the last
auction. Only he and Chris may now bid. Bob chooses a Forest and Chris
raises the bid to 300 Florin. Bob raises the bid to 400, Chris to 500, Bob to
600, then Chris passes. Bob takes and places the Forest, pays 600 Florin
to the Bank, and places his marker on the Forest stack. 
(4) Now only Chris may bid. She may choose freely from the four remaining
stacks: Lake, Builder, Prestige card, or Recruiting card. She takes a
Builder and pays 200 Florin to the Bank. 
After Chris finishes, Anna, Bob, and David take their markers back. 
The meaning of the 7 objects
Basically,
• each object gives its specific advantages only to the Principality it is in! 
• a player may have as many of each object as he can acquire, except that
each player is limited to 3 Builders. 
When a player acquires a Forest, he must immediately place it 
on empty spaces in his Principality. A Forest may be placed 
next to Buildings and other Landscapes (see “Build a Building“ 
for more information). A Forest has the following advantages:
• Of the 21 artists and scholars (the Professions) nine want Forests for
their recreation. When one of these 9 Professions completes a Work in
the Action phase and there is at least one Forest in the Principality
where the Work is completed, the WV for that Work is increased by 3
(see “Complete a Work” for more information). 
• When a player places a second Forest in his Principality (he need not
place it adjacent to the first), he scores 3 PP. He moves his figure 3
spaces forward on the fame track. When a player places a third Forest
in his Principality (he need not place it next to either of the other two),
he scores 3 PP, and so on. 2)
Lakes are used in the same way as Forests. The difference is 
that Lakes are smaller and attract only 7 of the Professions 
to them for recreation.
Parks are used in the same way as Forests. The 
difference is that Parks are smaller and attract 
only 5 of the Professions to them for recreation.

A Jester, through his entertainment, brings relaxation to the 
artists and scholars. When a player acquires a Jester, he 
places it on his Palazzo. Each Jester in a Principality 
increases the WV of a Work completed in that Principality by 2 
(see “Complete a Work” for more information). 
• When a player acquires a Builder, he places it in the left-most 
builder space on his player board. This player only pays 300 
Florin (instead of 700) to build a Building (see “Build a 
Building” for more information). 
• When a player acquires a second Builder, he places it in the middle
builder space on his player board. The player may now build buildings
adjacent to each other (see “Build a Building” for more information). 
• When a player acquires a third Builder, he places it in the right-most
builder space on his player board. The player now builds Buildings for
no cost.
When a player acquires a second Builder, he earns 3 PP. When he
acquires a third Builder, he also earns 3 PP.
When a player wins an auction for a Prestige card, he takes 
the top 5 cards from the Prestige deck (all cards if there are 
less than 5), chooses one and places it face down next to his 
player board. He then places the other four cards face down 
at the bottom of the Prestige deck in any order he chooses.
Depending on the cards, a player who acquires a Prestige card may earn
up to 8 PP for each card at the end of the game. To earn the points on a
Prestige card, the player must fulfill the requirements listed on the card
in his Principality at the end of the game. Many of the cards require a
player to be the only player to fulfill the requirements to earn the full PP.
If the player ties with others, he would earn only half the points. 
For example, Bob holds the card, “For the most buildings you earn 6 PP (3)”.
He earns 6 PP if he is the only player with the most buildings in his
Principality. If he ties with one or more other players, he earns 3 PP. Of
course, if Chris has the most buildings, Bob earns 0 PP. 
A player has two options for getting more Profession cards: 
1. by recruiting from another player using a Recruiting card
2. by taking a Profession card in the Action phase 
(see “Take a Profession card” for more information). 
When a player acquires a Recruiting card, he may use it 
immediately or later. To use a Recruiting card, a player chooses any face
up Profession card on the board (from any opponent)3), takes the card
into his hand, and places the Recruiting card in its place on the board. If
the player chooses to use the Recruiting card later, he takes it into his
hand and may play it anytime during his turn in the Action phase of any
round 4). The player may use the recruited Profession card to complete a
Work immediately or in a later round (see “Complete a Work” for more
information).
Note: a Recruiting card counts as a Profession card and adds 1 WV to each
completed Work (see “Complete a Work” for more information). It also counts
as a Profession card for all Bonus and Prestige cards that mention Profession
cards. 
Increases the WV for each
Work by 2.
1st Builder: 
• building cost: 300 Florin
2nd Builder: 
• building cost: 300 Florin
• allow adjacent buildings
• + 3 PP
3rd Builder: 
• building cost: 0 Florin
• allow adjacent buildings
• + 3 PP
pick 1 of 5 cards
The owner of a Prestige card
may earn PP at the end of the
game by fulfilling the
requirements on the card.
Note: there is a summary of all
Prestige cards, with examples, on
the last page of these rules.
Note: when a player ties with
others, only he scores the PP 
for the Prestige card.
Allow a player to recruit
Profession cards from other
players. A player may not
recruit a Profession card 
from himself.
3) Note: only face up Profession
cards may be recruited. Those in
other players’ hands may not be
recruited!
4) The use of a Recruiting card in
the Action phase does not count as
one of the two allowed actions. In
fact, a player may use multiple
Recruiting cards if he has them.

Action phase
In the Action phase, each player, in clockwise order beginning with the
starting player, may execute two actions 5). On his turn, a player
completes his first action and then completes his second 6). A player may
not start one action and interrupt it with the second action.
The possible actions are:
• Complete a Work 
• Build a Building 
• Take a Profession card
(once only)
• Introduce a Freedom
(once only)
• Acquire a Bonus card
Completing a Work, building a Building, and acquiring a Bonus card may
each be done by each player once or twice per round in the Action phase.
Introducing a Freedom and taking a Profession card may each only be
done by each player once per round in the Action phase.
Complete a Work
A player may complete a Work by playing the Profession card from his
hand for the artist or scholar completing the Work. The value of the Work
must equal or exceed the minimum
value shown in the round/minimum
WV table. This value increases from
round to round as seen in the table 7).
When a player wants an artist or scholar to complete a Work, he does the
following:
1) He takes the appropriate Profession card from his hand and lays it on
the table next to his player board; the artist or scholar represented by
the card completes a Work. 
Note: the player leaves the card face up next to his player board, but may
not complete another Work by this person 8). However, another player
could recruit this Profession card and use it to complete a Work in his
Principality.
2) The player calculates the WV points based on how the objects in his
Principality match those desired by the artist or scholar as described
on the Profession card played. The WV starts at 0 and:
• If the player has the Building where the artist or scholar prefers 
to work, he adds 4 points to the WV for this Work.
+ 4
• If the player has the Landscape where the artist or scholar wants 
to recreate, he adds 3 points to the WV for this Work.
• If the player has the Freedom that the artist or scholar supports, 
he adds 3 points to the WV for this Work.
• For each Jester the player has in his Palazzo, he adds 
2 points to the WV for this Work.
© WV @+ 2
• For each Profession or Recruiting card the player 
has in his hand or on the table, he adds 1 point to the 
WV for the Work.
© WV @+ 1
• For each Bonus card the player now plays, he adds X 
points to the WV for the Work (see “Acquire a Bonus 
card” for more information).
© WV @+ X
The sum of all the above is the Work’s WV. The player places his
marker on the fame track on the space that matches the WV points
he earned for the Work (e.g. WV 15 = space 15). The player does not
score the WV as PP.
Action phase
5) Players may choose to take fewer
than 2 actions, even none.
6) Players may choose in which order
to do their 2 actions.
Up to 2 actions per player: 
1 - 2 Complete a Work
1 - 2 Build a Building
1 Take a Profession card
1 Introduce a Freedom
1 - 2 Acquire a Bonus card
Work
A minimum number of WV
points are needed to complete
a Work.
7) For example, in the 2nd round, a
Work must score at least 10 WV
points to be completed. In the 6th
round, a Work must score at least 16
WV points to be completed.
1) Play a Profession 
card face up.
8) A player may recruit a Profession
card from a player who recruited
from him and played it, and,
thereby, complete a second Work
with that Profession card.
2) Calculate the WV:
Building available?
+ 4
Landscape available?
Freedom available?
per Jester 
+ 2
per Profession and
Recruiting card
+ 1
per Bonus card
now played
+ X
Place your marker on the fame
track space that matches the
WV of the Work.

Reminder: the WV must be at least as high as the minimum WV for the
round! Otherwise, the player may not play the Profession card and the
Work may not be completed!
3) The player earns money from the Bank for a completed Work. The
Bank pays 100 Florin per WV (e.g. WV 15 = 1,500 Florin). 
The player may immediately (but not later) take some or all of the
payment for this Work (but not more) in PP rather than money. The
exchange rate for this is 200 Florin = 1 PP. If a player chooses to do
this, he immediately returns between 200 Florin and the full amount
of the payment to the Bank and then moves his scoring figure the
appropriate number of spaces forward on the fame track 9).
Note: the player may only convert the money just earned for a Work to
PP and must do it immediately. A player may not convert any of his
other money to PP. Therefore, a player must think carefully about how
much he wants to convert!
4.) The players leave their markers on the fame track until the end of
the Action phase. They do not score the Work’s WV by moving their
scoring figures on the fame track. After all players have taken their
turns in the Action phase, the player with the best Work scores 3 PP
(see “Best Work” for more information). 
Note: when a player completes two Works in a round, he places his
marker on the fame track space for the Work with the higher WV, not the
sum of the two!
Work scoring example: 
In round 3 (minimum WV = 12), Anna chooses to complete a Work with a
Poet. She places the Poet Profession card from her hand face up onto the
table next to her player board. In her Principality, she has a Theater, a
Travel Freedom tile, and 2 Jesters. She also has 4 Profession cards (including
the Poet she just played and a Recruiting card) on the table and in her hand.
She has no Lake in her Principality and plays no Bonus cards. 
She calculates her WV as shown below:
Building:
Landscape:
Freedom:
Jester:
Profession and:
Bonus cards:
total:
She places her marker on space 15 of the fame track.
Anna takes 1,500 Florin from the Bank. She decides she does not need the
money at this time and so exchanges money from the Work for the most
possible PP: she returns 1,400 Florin to the Bank and moves her scoring
figure 7 spaces along the fame track.
3)
Bank pays money:
WV x 100 Florin
This money may only now
be exchanged for PP: 
200 Florin = 1 PP 
9) For example, a player who earns
1,500 Florin for a Work, may score
1 - 7 PP by returning 200 - 1,400 of
these 1,500 Florin to the Bank.
4)
The players’ markers on
the fame track are used to
find the best Work
Note: a player need not have the
Building, Landscape, or Freedom
that is shown on the Profession
card in his Principality to play the
card and complete a Work. Of
course, the more of these he
matches, the higher the WV! It is
possible to score the minimum WV
with only Jesters, Bonus cards, and
Profession cards.
Note: players do not reveal the
Profession cards in their hands;
they merely show them so they may
be counted to calculate the WV.

Build a Building
Players build Buildings in their Principalities to enhance their Prestige
and to increase the WV of completed Works. There are: 
• 3 large Buildings, each requiring 7 empty spaces: 
• 5 medium Buildings, each requiring 5 empty spaces: 
• 2 small Buildings, each requiring 3 empty spaces:
Building a Building helps a player in two ways:
• It immediately earns the player 3 PP. 
• It may add to the WV of a Work, by adding 4 points to the WV of a
Work, when the artist or scholar prefers to work in this Building 
(see “Complete a Work for more information).
A player pays 700 Florin to build a Building regardless of its size: large,
medium, or small.
When a player has 1 or 2 Builders in his Principality, he pays only 300
Florin to build a Building, regardless of its size. When a player has 3
Builders in his principality, he pays nothing to build Buildings 
(see “Builder” for more information). 
When a player builds a Building, he pays the building cost to the Bank,
takes the Building from the supply, and immediately places the Building
in his Principality. If the Building a player wants to build is not available
in the supply, he may not build that Building.
A player may place a Building (or a Landscape) wherever he chooses in
his Principality as long as he follows these rules:
1) The player may place a Building (or a Landscape) in any orientation
on the grid, but must place it completely within the grid. As the pieces
have two sides, the player may place them either side up.
2) The player may not place a Building (or a Landscape) so that it
overlaps, even partially, another Building or a Landscape.
3) A player may not place a Building directly adjacent to another
Building. Buildings may touch, at most, at their corners. This rule
applies also to the Palazzo. 
When a player has 2 or more Builders in his Principality, he may build
a Building directly adjacent to another Building! 
4) A player may build a Building (or Landscape) directly adjacent to a
Landscape.
5) A player may build each Building only once in his Principality. 
6) Once a Building (or a Landscape) is placed in a Principality, the
player may not move or demolish it during the game.
Buildings
3 different sizes:
- large: 
University
Laboratory
Workshop
- medium: Library 
Opera
Studio
Hospital
Theater
- small: 
Tower
Chapel 
The Palazzo does not count as any
of the 3 building sizes! 
There are three each of the 10
Buildings.
a Building...
- earns 3 PP
- increases the WV of a Work 
by 4 points for 1 to 3 
Professions
- costs 700 Florin
(with 1 or 2 Builders: 300 Florin)
(with 3 Builders: 0 Florin)
- may be placed in any
orientation
- must be within the grid
- must not overlap other
Buildings or Landscapes
- must not be built directly
adjacent to another Building
(except with 2 or 3 Builders!)
- at most one of each Building
in a Principality
- must not be moved or
demolished

violates rule 1: 
not within grid
violates rule 2: 
overlaps another Building or
violates rule 3:
adjacent to another Building or
the Palazzo (assuming that the
player does not have 2 or 3
Builders)
violates rule 5:
two of the same Building
(the second tower could not be
placed)
Profession card
Pick 1 of 5 cards. 
The card may be used in the
same round as it is taken.
Note: each player is allowed to use
this action only once per round.
Freedom
Increases the WV by 3 for
Works of 7 artists and scholars
- each player is allowed to use this
action only once per round.
- the number of each type of
Freedom tile available is equal to
the number of players minus 1.
Bonus card
Pick 1 of 5 cards. 
Increases the WV by X.
When completing a Work, a
player may play as many Bonus
cards as he wants. They are
then discarded from the game.
- Bonus cards increase the WV! 
- Prestige cards score PP!
Take a Profession card
When a player wants a new Profession card, he pays 300 Florin to the Bank,
draws the top five cards from the Profession card deck (all cards if there are
less than 5), examines them, picks one card, and adds it to his hand. The
player places the unchosen cards, face down, in any order he chooses, on
the bottom of the Profession card deck.
The player may use this card to complete a Work, either in this round if he
has an action left or in a later round. 
When the Profession deck is exhausted, players may not select this action. 
Introduce a Freedom
The artists and scholars are more comfortable living in a Principality that
offers certain Freedoms: Travel, Opinion, or Religion. They are also motivated
to produce greater Works in such circumstances. The specific Freedom
important to an artist or scholar is listed on his Profession card.
When a player wants to introduce a Freedom to his Principality, he pays
300 Florin to the Bank, takes the Freedom tile he wants from the supply,
and places it in the appropriate space on his player board. This Freedom
increases, in this Principality, the WV of a Work by 3 points if this
Freedom is the one important to the artist or scholar completing the Work.
A player may only introduce each Freedom once to his Principality. If the
Freedom a player wants is not available in the supply, he may not
introduce it to his Principality.
Acquire a Bonus card
Players may use Bonus cards to significantly increase the WV of a Work.
When a player wants a Bonus card, he pays 300 Florin to the Bank, draws
the top five cards from the Bonus card deck (all cards if there are less than
5), examines them, picks one card, and adds it to his hand. The player
places the unchosen cards, face down, in any order he chooses, on the
bottom of the Bonus card deck.
When a player completes a Work, he may also play none, one, or more
Bonus cards (even in the same round he acquired the card). This is not a
separate action, but part of the “Complete a Work” action.
Bonus cards add to the WV of a completed Work (see “Complete a Work”
for more information). The amount added can be a little or a lot. The
amount added is based on how many of the things described on the
card the player has. 
Building/
rule
violations

Please review the summary of all
Bonus cards (including the
examples) on the next page.
Best Work
Each round, the player with
the best Work earns 3 PP.
- the marker marks the WV!
- the figure marks the PP!
New Round
Move starting player figure and
round marker.
Money
- by completing a Work
- by moving his figure
backward on the fame track
GAME END
after 7 rounds
Score Prestige cards.
The player with the 
most PP is the winner.
Each Bonus card may only be played once. After playing a Bonus card,
the player places it face up next to the game board; it is out of the game!
When the Bonus deck is exhausted, players may not select this action. 
Best Work
After all players have completed their actions in the Action phase (including
those who chose to take less than two actions), the players compare their WV’s
for the round as shown by their markers on the fame track. The player with
the highest WV for the round, scores 3 PP and moves his figure forward on the
fame track 3 spaces. If two or more players tie with the highest WV, they all
score 3 PP. If only one player completes a Work in the round, he is automatically
the highest and scores 3 PP. If no player completes a Work in the round, no one
scores the 3 PP for the round.
After scoring the best Work, all players who completed Works in the round
remove their markers from the fame track.
New Round
After scoring the best Work, the Action phase is complete. The starting
player gives his left neighbor the starting player token. This player
becomes the new starting player. He moves the round marker to the next
space on the round/minimum WV table and begins the new round.
Earning money
During the game, a player can earn money in two ways:
• A player earns money for each completed Work: 100 Florin for each WV
point (see “Complete a Work for more information).
• A player may move his figure backward on the fame track at any time
during the game. For each space moved backward, the player takes 100
Florin from the Bank. 
GAME END
The game ends after the 7th round. The players now score their Prestige
cards: each player who has fulfilled the requirements on any of his
Prestige cards, scores the appropriate number of PP (see “Prestige cards”
for more information). 
The player with the most PP (whose scoring figure has moved furthest on
the fame track) is the winner.
If two or more players tie with the most PP, the player among them with
the most money is the winner.
TWO PLAYER RULES
These rules explain how to play with just two players. Players should use the original rules for the game,
making only the changes described below. Players can play with two players with the other expansions.
2500 starting money
5 freedoms
starting bid is 300 Florins
three landscapes as one
• 2500 Florin starting money (1 @ 1000, 2 @ 500, and 5 @ 100)
• 5 freedoms (1 of each type, the other 2 chosen randomly); for a more
challenging game, play with just 4 freedoms.
• Starting bid is exactly 300 Florins instead of 200 Florins.
• Auction the three landscape types (forest, lake, and park) as one item. 
The winner of the auction chooses which he wants. The other player 
cannot choose to bid on another landscape this round.

Summary of the 20 different Bonus cards
With each Bonus card is a sample value assuming the player playing the card has the following items: 
• 2 Forests
• 0 Jesters
• 3 Profession cards (on the table)
• 1 Lake
• 2 Builders
• 1 Profession and 1 Recruiting card (in his hand)
• 0 Parks
• 1 Prestige card
• University, Workshop, Opera, Tower, Chapel
• 2 Freedoms
(Note: the Palazzo does not count as a Building!)
Building
(the WV increases by 5)
large Building
medium Building
and each Forest in your
( the WV increases by 3)
small Building
and each Landscape in
your Principality
(the WV increases by 5)
Building size
(large, medium, small)
(the WV increases by 6)
Note: each Landscape type
counts just once.
(the WV increases by 3)
(the WV increases by 2)
(the WV increases by 0)
Each of the following
Categories
(Forest, Lake, Park,
Jester, Builder, Prestige
card, Freedom) in your
the WV by 1 (the WV
increases by 5) 
Note: each Category counts
just once, regardless of how
many objects the player
has of that category!
Freedom
(the WV increases by 0)
and each Freedom in
your Principality
(the WV increases by 2)
Prestige card
you have 
(the WV increases by 2)
Prestige card
you have and each
Freedom in your
(the WV increases by 3)
(the WV increases by 4)
and each Lake in your
(the WV increases by 3)
Landscape type
(Forest, Lake, Park) 
(the WV increases by 4)
Note: each Landscape type
counts just once, regardless
of how many objects the
player has of that type!
Each of your own 
Profession (and Recruiting)
card on the table 
(including any just played)
(the WV increases by 3) Note: the
card just played is on the table.
Each Profession (and
Recruiting) card in
your Hand (excluding
any just played)
(the WV increases by 2)
Note: the card just played is
on the table and does not
count!

Summary of the 14 different Prestige cards
With each Prestige card is a sample value assuming the player having the card at the end of the game has the
following items: 
• 2 Forests
• 2 Freedoms 
• 1 Lake
• 4 Profession cards and 1 Recruiting cards (on the table)
• 0 Parks
• 1 Profession card (in his hand)
• 0 Jester
• University, Workshop, Opera, Tower, Chapel
• 2 Builders
(Note: the Palazzo does not count as a Building!)
• 1 Prestige cards
the most Buildings
you earn 6 (3) PP 
(Note: an opponent also
has 5 Buildings and the
player is tied for the most: 
the player earns 3 PP.)
two large Buildings
you earn 5 PP 
(The player earns 5 PP.) 
This does not change if
another player also has at
least two large Buildings.
the fewest 
empty spaces
you earn 8 (4) PP 
(Note: an opponent has
fewer empty spaces: the
player earns 0 PP.)
all three Landscape
types
(Forest, Lake, Park)
you earn 8 PP
as he has no Park.)
the most Landscapes
you earn 7 (4) PP
(Note: an opponent also has
3 Landscapes and the
player ties for the most: the
player earns 4 PP.)
the most Forests 
you earn 7 (4) PP
(Note: the player is the
only player with the
most: he earns 7 PP.)
the most Lakes you
earn 6 (3) PP
(Note: two opponents also
have 1 Lake and the
player is tied for the most:
the player earns 3 PP.)
the most Jesters you
earn 6 (3) PP 
(The player earns 0 PP, as
he has no Jugglers.) 
This is true even if no
player has Jugglers ... see
Prestige card “Park”.
the most Builders
you earn 6 (3) PP
(Note: the player is the
only player with the most:
he earns 6 PP.)
1 Builder + 
1 Jester + 2
Landscapes
you earn 7 PP
as he has no Jugglers.)
4 Buildings + 2
Freedoms + 4 Works
(= Profession and
Recruiting cards on the
table) you earn 6 PP
(The player earns 6 PP.)
the most Parks
you earn 
5 (3) PP 
(Note: all other players
have no Parks: the player
earns 0 PP.) 
Players cannot score the
most for having nothing.
Therefore, the players do
not tie for the most with
none and do not score 3 PP.
all three Freedoms
you earn 8 PP
as he only has 2
Freedoms.)
For the most Works
(= Profession and
Recruiting cards on the
table) you earn 
7 (4) PP 
(Note: an opponent also has
5 Works and the player is tied
for the most: 
the player earns 4 PP.)

J E N S C H R I S TO P H E R U L R I C H & WO L FGA N G K R A M E R
THE MUSE AND THE PRINCESS EXPANSION
This expansion is not a complete game, but must be played with Princes of
Florence. We think it will appeal to those who are experiences with the basic
game and want more from the game. We do not recommend players try the
expansion until they have played the basic game. 
The expansion adds 6 special character cards which players can bid on in a
second part of the auction phase. Thus, the auction phase has been split into
two phases: the original auction phase and special character auction.
Follow the original preparation rules with the following addition:
• Place the 6 special character cards face-up separately near the board.
• Place 600 Florins on the Banker card.
Other than the auction and use of the special character cards, the rules
for playing Princes of Florence with this expansion are the same with
two exceptions:
• Players cannot exchange prestige points for money. The only ways to 
get money now are with the new Banker card or by completing works.
SPECIAL CHARACTER CARD AUCTION
The starting player begins the special character auction by placing his
playing marker on one of the bidding spaces on the special character
card he want to buy (he may also pass if there is no card he wants to bid
on). He may select any of the bidding spaces he wants. The space he
chooses is his bid for the card. Most cards have 13 bidding spaces marked
from 3 to 15. Each number represents a bid of 100 Florins. The Banker
card is the exception. It has only 6 bidding spaces, from 0 to 5. 
A player may not make a bid he is unable to pay!
Example: Valerie places her marker on space 6 of the Merchant card. She is
bidding 600 Florins to buy the card.
Bidding continues clockwise around the table with players placing their
markers or passing. When a player is the first to place his marker on a
card, he may place it on any of the bidding spaces on the card. If the card
he wants to bid on already has another player’s marker, he must place his
marker on a higher number than the othe player’s marker. As there may
only be one marker on a card, after a player places his marker on a card
with another marker, he returns that marker to the other player.
place 6 special character cards
near the board and 600 Florins
on the banker
same as original game except
for 6 special character cards
and players cannot trade
prestige points for money
CHARACTER AUCTION
place a marker on a bidding
space
on a turn players place their
markers on any space on empty
card or higher space on
occupied card, returning other
marker

If the player’s marker is already on a card when it is his turn to bid, he
has won the auction for that card. He pays the price of his bid to the bank
(except for the banker, see below) and takes the card and his marker,
placing both in his play area. He places the character card face up.
When a player passes, he cannot later enter the bidding for a special
character card in this game round.
The special character card auction ends when all players have passed or
have bought a card.
USING A SPECIAL CHARACTER CARD
The players keep their special character cards face-up in their play areas
until the use them. The Banker is used immediately; the Cardinal, Muse,
and Princess may be used anytime during the action phase; and the
Merchant and Professor may be used anytime until the beginning of the
next special character auction. When a player uses a card, he returns it
the special character card area near the board. When a player uses a card
immediately (or before the end of the auction of the special character
cards), he places if face-down to indicate that it may not be bought again
in this round. If a player does not use the card when the next special
character card auction begins, he must return it then to the special
character card area near the board.
SPECIAL CHARACTER CARD DESCRIPTIONS
Banker: The banker is one of only two ways for players to get money - the
other is by completing a work. As mentioned in “Preparation”, the players
place 600 Florins on the card to start the game. When no player buys the
banker in a round, the players add 100 Florins to the card. When a player
buys the banker, he takes the money from the card minus his bid.
He then returns the card, placing 600 Florins on it.
If a player still has the banker at the end of the game, he may exchange
his money for prestige points at the rate of 200 Florins = 1 PP.
Example: in the first round, no player bought the bank, so the card now has
700 Florins on it. In the second round Donald wins the auction for the card
for 200 Florins, pays 200 Florins to the bank, and takes the card and its 700
Florins. Leter, he returns the card to its place near the board and places 600
Florins from the bank on it for round 3.
Cardinal: The cardinal gives the player one extra action (3 instead of 2)
in the action phase. It does not remove the restrictions with regard to only
one freedom and one prefession card, however.
Example: Anna wins the auction for the cardinal and builds a University,
introduces religeous freedom, and completes a work by a mathemetician in
the action phase.
Merchant: The merchant offers the player two option, from which he can
take one, but not both:
• the player can take the item he bids on in the next auction (not special
character auction!) for no cost or
• the player scores as many prestige points as their current rank on the
fame track.
on a turn if player’s marker is
already on a card, he pays the
bid amount a takes the card
pass -> out of bidding for this
round
auction end -> all pass or have
a special character card
CHARACTER AUCTION
players keep cards in play
areas until used:
Banker, Merchant, and
Professor until next special
character auction
Cardinal, Muse, and princess
during action phase
CARDS DESCRIPTIONS
Banker: player gets money from
the banker.
At game end, the player can trade
money for prestige points:
200 Florins = 1 PP
Cardinal: player gets 1 extra
action in the action phase. The
freedom and profession limits
remain.
Merchant: player gets a free item
in the next auction or prestige
points based on his rank on the
fame track.

Note: We have used the pronouns “he”, “his”, etc. to represent players 
of either gender throughout to avoid awkward constructions. 
If you have any comments, questions, or suggestions, please write us at:
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 1033, Placitas, NM 87043, USA or
RioGames@aol.com or 
visit our website at www.riograndegames.com
The authors and publisher thank the many testplayers for their time and their helpful suggestions,
especially:
Frank Biller, Hans-Jürgen Blechinger, Christine and Peter Dürdoth, Andreas Eggert, Andrea Engel, Walburga
Freudenstein, Ulrike and Veit Froer, Dieter Habelitz, Sebastian Herrmann, Markus Huber, Steffen Klotz, Ursula
Kramer, Reinhard, Regina and Matthias Kramer, Elke Kraus, Gerhard and Christel Kühnle, Marcel Ott, Robert
Plückebaum, Rainer Rösner, Rebecca Stümper, Anke Timmering, Natalie and Jens Christopher Ulrich, Dominik
Wagner, Rüdiger Wollny and several game clubs and groups from Bödefeld, Bonn, Gerlingen, Hannover,
Kleinwalsertal, Ludwigsburg, Rosenheim, Stuttgart and Winterberg.
The expansion "Muse and Princess" first was published by QWG, 2007
© 1999 Richard Ulrich / Wolfgang Kramer
© 2010 Rio Grande Games
Muse: player increases the work
value of each work completed in
the round by the number of the
round.
Princess: player completes a
work without using a profession
card and calculates the work
value:
each landscape +3
each builder +2
each building +2
each profession/recruiter +1
Professor: player takes a bonus
or prestige card for free.
The player has until the end of the auction of the next round to decide
which option is better. Of course, he could choose the prestige point
option at any time. If the player still has the merchant during the next
auction (not special character card auction!), he participates in the
auction as though he did not have the merchant. If he wins the auction,
he then decides whether to take the object for free or to pay for it and
take the prestige points.
Example: Stephen (gray), now in 4th place, chooses to add 4 PP to his score,
moving him from 4th place to 1st place!
Muse: The muse increases the work value (WV) of every work the player
completes in the action phase of this round. The amount of the increase
for each Work is the number of the round (1-7).
Example: Scott uses the muse in round 6 to add 6 points each to the work
values of the works he completes using the poet and the philosopher.
Princess: The princess allows a player to complete a Work in the action
phase without playing a prefession card. This is an action. Using the
princess to complete a Work increases its work value by 3 for each
landscape (even duplicates), by 32 for each builder, by 2 for each
building, and by 1 for each prefession or recruiter. The princess is not a
prefession! Also, you may not use a bonus card when completein a Work
with the princess.
Example: Todd has the princess, 2 forests, a lake, a laboratory, a library and
3 profession cards and completes a Work with a work value of 16. 
Professor: The professot allows the player to take one prestige card or
one bonus card for free. The player may do this immediately or anytime
he wants until the start of the next special character card auction. 
To get the free card, the player chooses which kind of card he wants and
then draws the top-most five cards from that card stack. He looks at the
five cards, chooses one to keep, placing it face down in his play area, and
places the other four face-down under the stack.
Example: Ken has the professor and decides to go for a bonus card. He draws
5 bonus cards from the stack, chooses to keep the one that add bonuses for
each building in his pricipality, and discards the others face-down under the
stack.