A card-driven 2-player game
about the most notorious of all political scandals
by Matthias Cramer

In June 1972, five men are arrested 
in Washington’s Watergate Building. 
What looks like a third-rate burglary 
attempt on the headquarters of the 
Democratic National Committee induces 
journalists Bob Woodward and Carl 
Bernstein of the Washington Post to 
start a thorough investigation. Over 
the following two years, they discover 
that the five men were directed from 
within the White House to spy on 
political opponents. As a consequence, 
in 1974 President Richard Nixon resigns 
from office to avoid impeachment.
In WATERGATE, one player assumes the role of 
a Newspaper Editor, while the other embodies 
the Nixon Administration – each with a unique 
set of cards. To win, the Nixon Administration 
must build up enough momentum to make it 
to the end of the term, whereas the Editor 
must gather enough evidence to connect two 
informants directly to the President. Of 
course, the administration will do all in its 
power to smother that evidence. Can the secret 
source known as "Deep Throat“ tip the scales? 
A thrilling race against time begins...
HISTORY
OBJECT OF THE GAME
COMPONENTS
20 player cards
 “Editor“
1 momentum card
 “Editor“
20 player cards “Nixon
 Administration“
1 momentum card “Nixon 
 Administration“
1 game board
1 initiative card
1 End of round
 overview card
36 evidence tokens
7 picture tiles
9 momentum tokens
1 initiative token
1 bag
-2-

SET UP
Determine who will play the Editor and 
who will play the Nixon Administration 
(from now on referred to as "Nixon“).
Place the game board A between you so 
that the Editor can see the board the 
right way up, while Nixon looks at it 
upside down.
Take the 21 cards of your role.
Place your momentum card B face up 
next to the research track on your 
side of the board.
Shuffle your 20 player cards and place 
them as your personal draw deck C 
face down in front of you.
Beside the 0 space of the research 
track, place the initiative card D 
face up between the two momentum 
cards so that its arrows point 
towards the Editor. Place the End of 
round overview card E next to it.
Place the initiative token F and
1 momentum token G on the 0 space 
of the research track. Beside 
the board, form a supply for the 
remaining 8 momentum tokens H .
Create a supply for the 7 picture 
tiles I . This supply is called the 
“potential informant supply”.
Put the 30 evidence tokens J in the 
bag K and place the bag nearby.
1)
2)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
3)
9)
C
B
C
B
D
F
I
H
J
K
A
-3-
the Editor’s side
Nixon’s side
G
evidence board
research track
E

Nixon only: Draw 3 evidence tokens from the bag and 
look at them in secret. Then place them face down 
onto the 0 space of the research track.
Nixon may look at face-down evidence tokens on the 
research track at any time. The Editor may not.
WATERGATE is played over a series of rounds. Each round comprises the following
3 phases:
A) Initial phase
Carry out the following 2 steps:
Both players: Look at the side of the initiative 
card that points towards you and draw that many 
cards from your personal draw deck: either 4 or	
5 cards. Put these cards in your hand, concealing 
them from your opponent. If your personal draw deck 
runs out, shuffle your discard pile (formed during 
the game) and place it as the new face-down draw 
deck in front of you.
The game ends immediately 
with a win for Nixon if:
Nixon has managed to
place a total of
5 momentum tokens
on their momentum card.
The game ends immediately with 
a win for the Editor if:
At least 2 informants (face-up 
picture tiles) on the evidence 
board are connected via face-
up evidence tokens to Nixon‘s 
picture in the center.
Players draw their hand cards for the round and new evidence 
tokens are placed onto the research track.
Players alternate playing and resolving 1 card at a time 
until they have no cards left in hand.
The initiative, momentum, and evidence tokens on the research 
track are awarded depending on whose side they are on.
A) Initial phase
B) Card phase
C) Evaluation phase
-4-
1)
2)
PLAYING THE GAME

Starting with the player who has the initiative (the player 
that the arrows on the initiative card are pointing towards), 
the two of you take alternating turns until neither of you 
has any cards left in hand.
On your turn, you must play ONE card from your hand.
Each card consists of two parts: • a value part
	
	
	
	
 and	 • an action part.
If you choose to use the value part, move 1 token on the research 
track as many spaces towards your side as that value states (1 to 4). 
You can choose either the initiative token 
, the momentum token 
, 
or an evidence token.
If you move an evidence token, bear the following rules in mind:
There are 3 basic types of evidence token, each with a specific color:
Blue (represents checks for Nixon’s re-election campaign)
Yellow (represents ground-plans of the Watergate complex) 
Green (represents transcripts of the Nixon White House tapes)
There are also two-colored evidence tokens
that can be used as either of their colors.
VALUE PART
B) Card phase
-5-
Of these two parts, you must choose ONE to use.
Note: Each 
card also 
shows a quote 
at the bottom 
that has no 
relevance to 
the gameplay.
When you use the value part of your card to move an evidence 
token, it must be a token of the color shown on that card A or 
a two-colored evidence token that includes that color.
If your card shows a joker (with all 3 colors) B , you can move 
1 evidence token of any color.

To move a face-down evidence token, also note the following: 
As Nixon, to move a face-down evidence token with the color shown on your card, 
simply flip the token face up and move it accordingly. (Remember that you can always 
look at face-down evidence tokens.)
As the Editor, if you want to move a face-down evidence token, ask Nixon if there 
is any with the color on your card (if the card shows a joker, name a color). If 
there is a face-down token with that color, Nixon must flip it face up and move it 
the appropriate number of spaces towards your side. If there are more than one 
such tokens, Nixon chooses which of them to flip and move. If there is no face-
down evidence token with that color (and Nixon tells you so), you may instead move 
either the initiative token, the momentum token, or an already face-up evidence 
token with that color (or - in the case of a joker - any color).
EXAMPLE:
The Editor uses the value part of this card
and so moves one of the following tokens
2 spaces towards their side of the research
track:
• the initiative token A ,
• the momentum token B ,
• the yellow evidence token C (because it matches 
the color shown on the card), or
• the yellow/blue evidence token D (because one of 
its two parts matches the color shown on the card).
If the Editor wants to move the face-down evidence token E , the Editor 
would have to ask Nixon first if that token includes yellow.
If it does, Nixon must flip it and move it two spaces towards the 
Editor’s side.
If it doesn’t, the Editor must choose one of the other options above.
Moving a token to space 5 on your side:
Whenever you manage to move a token to space 5 on your side of 
the research track, any extra steps are forfeited and you gain 
that token immediately. If you gain a token this way, follow the 
instructions in the green box of that token‘s type on pages 9 
and 10.
Attention: As soon as a token has been gained, it is gone from 
the research track and thus can’t be moved anymore.
IMPORTANT: After you use a card’s value part, discard it face up to your personal 
discard pile. (If it is your first discarded card, place it face up beside your 
draw deck to create your discard pile.)
-6-

If you choose to use the action part of your card, follow the printed 
instructions.
There are 3 types:
ACTION PART
EVENTS
Most cards in the game feature an event.
Events must be removed from the game
(e.g. to the box) after you use their 
action part. Only the event "Gambit“ 
provides an alternative (see page 15).
•	Some cards 
state 
requirements 
which must 
be met in 
order to use 
their action 
part.
•	Some cards are 
reaction cards.	
You can only use 
their action part 
as a direct 
reaction to a 
specific card played 
by your opponent. (For details, see 
“Card overview” on pages 11 to 16.)
CONSPIRATORS
Only Nixon has conspirators. After Nixon 
uses the action part of a conspirator card, 
it goes to Nixon‘s discard pile.
JOURNALISTS
Only the Editor has journalists. After the 
Editor uses the action part of a journalist 
card, it goes to the Editor‘s discard pile.
Important: When following a card’s instructions, you have to fully carry out all 
instructions that are possible. Instructions that cannot be carried out (because, 
for example, a token that you are supposed to move is not present) can be ignored.
The instructions on most cards should be self-evident. However, on the next page, 
you can find explanations of the most common instructions. Also, in the appendix 
of this rule book (starting on page 11), you can find an overview that provides 
historical background and rules clarifications where necessary.
Attention:
-7-

If an instruction tells 
you to "pin a picture 
to the evidence board“, 
it means that you must 
take the picture tile 
of the person named 
from the potential 
informant supply and 
place it onto that person’s informant space 
(which is marked with that person’s last name). 
The Editor always places picture tiles face up 
(as recruited informants), while Nixon places 
them face down.
If an instruction tells you to move a specific token "X 
steps“, move that token on the research track that many 
spaces towards your side.
If an instruction states a space of the research track, 
move the token to that space.
If an instruction tells you to 
move evidence tokens, you can 
choose among all those on
Some of the most common instructions
informant spaces
-8-
If an instruction tells you to “pin an evidence token 
to the evidence board“, follow the rules described in 
the green box “Pinning an evidence token to the evidence 
board“ on page 10.
the research track, whether they are face up or face
down (unless the instruction clearly states otherwise).
Attention: Whenever you move a face-down evidence token, 
you must flip it face up.
Further notes:
At any time, both of you may look at face-down evidence tokens that are already on 
the evidence board.
At any time, both of you may look at the cards of either discard pile and any 
cards already removed from the game (but never those of the face-down draw decks).

C) Evaluation phase
Once neither player has any cards left in hand, carry out the 
evaluation phase by following these 5 steps in order:
1) Return neutral evidence tokens to the bag
If there are any evidence tokens left on the 0 space of the 
research track (face up or face down), return them to the bag.
Gaining the initiative token
When you gain the initiative token, take it from the research 
track and place it onto the initiative card. Then turn the 
initiative card (if necessary) so that its arrows point towards 
you. This indicates that you have the initiative now.
Gaining the momentum token
When you gain this round‘s momentum token, take it from the 
research track and place it onto your momentum card on the empty 
space with the lowest number. If there is an instruction text 
next to that space, carry it out now.
If the Editor gains the momentum token but has no free space on 
the momentum card, remove that momentum token from the game!
2) Award this round’s initiative token
Give the initiative token to the player whose side of the 
research track it’s on.
If the initiative token is on the 0 space of the research track, it is gained by 
the player that did not have the initiative this round.
If the initiative token was gained earlier this round (see page 6), skip this step.
3) Award this round’s momentum token
Give this round’s momentum token to the player whose side of the 
research track it’s on.
If the momentum token is on the 0 space of the research track, it is not gained by 
either player but returned to the supply instead.
If the momentum token was gained earlier this round (see page 6), skip this step.
-9-

Pinning an evidence token to the evidence board
Whenever you gain an evidence token (or are instructed by 
a card to pin one to the evidence board), place it onto 
any empty evidence space that is marked with a slip of that 
token’s color (or - in the case of a two-colored token - one 
of its two colors). If you are the Editor, place it face up 
(to create connections). If you are Nixon, place it face 
down (to disrupt connections).
Attention: If the evidence token shows this symbol,
also move the momentum token on the research
track 1 space towards your side.
4) Place the initiative token and 1 new momentum token onto the 0 space
If no player has won the game yet (see below), start a new round.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends immediately with a 
win for Nixon:
as soon as Nixon 
places a fifth 
momentum token onto 
their momentum card
or, in rare cases, if 
no momentum token is 
left in the supply to 
be placed on the research track 
during step 4 of the evaluation 
phase (see above).
The game ends immediately with a 
win for the Editor:
as soon as the Editor has 
connected Nixon to at least
2 informants on the evidence 
board. An informant is 
considered connected to Nixon 
if a thread coming from that 
informant’s face-up picture tile 
runs all the way through face-
up evidence tokens to Nixon’s picture in the 
center (empty spaces and face-down evidence 
tokens disrupt connections).
Take the initiative token from the initiative card and place it 
onto the 0 space of the research track.
Then take 1 momentum token from the supply and also place it onto 
the 0 space of the research track. If you can’t do so because there 
is none left in the supply, Nixon wins the game immediately.
5) Award this round’s evidence tokens
Finally, each player gains any evidence tokens that are on their side of the 
research track. The player with the initiative begins and pins all evidence tokens 
from their side (if any) to the evidence board (see the green box below). Then the 
other player does the same for any evidence tokens from their side.
evidence spaces
-10-

Alexander Butterfield
A recipient of the Distinguished Flying Cross for his experience in Vietnam, 
Butterfield’s ambition saw him become deputy assistant to the President when he 
asked his friend, Bob Haldeman, for a position in the administration where he 
could advance his career. Though not involved directly in the Watergate scandal, 
Butterfield instigated Nixon’s downfall when he revealed that he had installed a 
taping system in the oval office pursuant to direct orders from Nixon. Butterfield 
acknowledged the taping system under questioning by senate staffers.
Hugh Sloan
Sloan was treasurer of the Committee for the Re-election of the President (CRP). 
Described by Woodward and Bernstein as one of the few honest persons they 
interviewed, Sloan was reported not to have had knowledge of the Watergate break-
in and resigned from the committee due to his ethical concerns. Sloan served as an 
important source for the Washington Post. After leaving Washington, Sloan settled 
down in Michigan with his wife, Deborah, where they raised their family together.
-11-
Martha Mitchell
Wife of Nixon’s Attorney General, John Mitchell, Martha was one of the victims of 
the Watergate scandal. Martha was an outgoing public figure referred to pejoratively 
as “the mouth of the south.” Mitchell was known to eavesdrop on her husband’s 
business and was a common source for reporters even prior to the Watergate break-
ins. After discovering that associates of her husband had been involved in the 
break-in, Martha reached out to one of her contacts, a reporter named Helen Thomas. 
Martha’s husband, aware of the risks of her talking, ordered a former FBI agent, 
Stephen King, to keep her from talking. While on the phone with Thomas, King ripped 
the phone from the wall. Martha was then held against her will and sedated by a 
psychiatrist. She was discredited by Nixon aides as having a drinking problem.
Rose Mary Woods
Woods served as Richard Nixon’s secretary from 1951 through 
the end of his political career. Woods was loyal and one of 
Nixon’s closest confidants, both personally and professionally. 
It is believed by historians that this loyalty led to Woods 
testifying before a grand jury that she was responsible for 
inadvertently erasing parts of an audio tape from a recording 
dated June 20, 1972. Her description of how this occurred 
became referred to as “the Rose Mary Stretch.”
Photo:
www.fordlibrarymuseum.gov
CARD OVERVIEW AND BACKGROUND INFORMATION
THE INFORMANTS

John Dean
As White House Counsel from 1970 through 1973, Dean was a major player in both the 
run up to the Watergate scandal and one of the key figures in the eventual downfall of 
Nixon and others. Dean became White House counsel after John Ehrlichman was promoted 
to the president’s chief domestic advisor. Dean was involved with others in the 
intelligence gathering operations that eventually led to the Watergate scandal. After 
the failed burglary, Dean was instrumental in the cover-up, including involvement 
with the destruction of evidence by the acting director of the FBI, Patrick Gray. 
It was his activities with Gray that led to Dean being directly implicated in the 
cover-up. Worried that he would be made the scapegoat, Dean began cooperating with 
government officials while still serving as counsel to Nixon. He pleaded guilty to 
a single felony count in exchange for his testimony before the grand jury. His 
testimony was crucial to the convictions of others involved in the cover-up.
Alfred Baldwin
On May 26, 1972, Alfred Baldwin, a former FBI agent, met with James McCord, 
Gordon Liddy, and Howard Hunt, in room 419 of the Howard Johnson hotel, across 
the street from the Watergate. On the night of the Watergate break-in, Baldwin 
served as the “shadow man” who communicated with the burglars via walkie-talkie. 
Following their arrest, Baldwin was purportedly deeply involved in the cover-up 
of physical evidence from the night of the burglary, though he was never charged 
with any crime. In October 1972, an interview of Baldwin was published in the Los 
Angeles Times, which led to further investigations.
James McCord
At the time of the Watergate scandal, James McCord was a former CIA agent who had 
an expertise in electronic listening devices. After leaving the CIA, McCord was 
hired by the Republican National Committee and the Committee for the Re-election 
of the President (CRP) for security work in January of 1972. McCord was one of the 
five burglars arrested on June 17, 1972. He pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy, 
burglary, and wiretapping, but later claimed that he had been coerced into pleading 
guilty by John Dean and John Mitchell. In a letter to U.S. District Judge John 
Sirica, McCord implicated senior administration officials in a cover-up. The letter 
led to McCord becoming a cooperating witness against the administration and his 
twenty-five year prison sentence was reduced to time served.
Deep Throat
Deep Throat was an alias given to Mark Felt, a special agent and Associate Director of 
the FBI from May 1942 through June 1973. Felt was widely considered the most important 
source in the reporting done by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. His identity was known 
to Woodward and Bernstein, but remained anonymous to the public for thirty years until he 
confirmed his identity in 2005. During the Watergate investigation, Felt was in a critical 
position within the FBI and had access to the entirety of the FBI’s findings. Felt had 
met Woodward around 1970 and had acted as an anonymous informant for stories before 
Watergate. After the burglary, Woodward contacted Felt and the two developed protocols 
for setting up clandestine meetings where Felt would share information learned during 
the course of the FBI investigation. Though Nixon and others suspected Felt’s leaking, 
they were unable to confirm the suspicions and likewise unable to prevent him from further 
leaks. His most famous phrase “Follow the money!“ (card 42) that supposedly pushed 
Woodward into a fertile direction and was made popular by the movie “All the President‘s 
Men“ (1976), however, was probably never uttered by Felt in reality. 
Photo: picture alliance
-12-

THE CONSPIRATORS
Gordon Liddy
As a former FBI agent, G. Gordon Liddy served as the chief operative of the White 
House Plumbers and was hired by Hunt. Liddy organized the burglary of the Watergate 
Hotel with Howard Hunt and was arrested after admitting that he had supervised the 
break-in. He was convicted of conspiracy, burglary, and illegal wiretapping. He 
was sentenced to twenty years in prison but his sentence was commuted by President 
Jimmy Carter, serving only a total of approximately four and a half years. Although 
initially loyal, Liddy “spilled his guts” in 1980 with his autobiography “Will.”
Chuck Colson
Charles Colson served as special counsel to President Richard Nixon from 1969 through 
1973. Colson has been described as an evil genius of the administration and a hit man 
for President Nixon. In 1971, he authored the memo that came to be known as “Nixon’s 
Enemies List.” Colson helped instigate riots against Vietnam War protesters and was 
responsible for various other nefarious activities. Colson hired Howard Hunt who 
later organized the Watergate break-in. Colson was eventually indicted for covering 
up the Watergate burglaries. Later in life, he became an evangelical Christian and 
became influential in both prison outreach efforts and prison reform.
Bob Haldeman
Harry Robins “Bob” Haldeman was White House Chief of Staff to 
President Richard Nixon from 1969 through 1973. Haldeman was a 
republican political operative and managed Nixon’s 1962 run for 
Governor of California. Haldeman was instrumental in the cover-
up efforts after Watergate. In what is known as the “Smoking Gun” 
tape from June 23, 1972, Nixon conspired with Haldeman to obstruct 
justice by planning to contact the CIA to pressure the FBI into 
halting the Watergate investigation on the ground that it was a 
matter of national security. This conspiracy formed one of the bases 
for the articles of impeachment against Nixon and led to Haldeman 
serving eighteen months in prison.
Howard Hunt
E. Howard Hunt was an author as well as officer with the CIA where 
he served for over thirty years before leaving in 1970. Before 
leaving the CIA, Hunt forged a relationship with Chuck Colson, who 
was working on Nixon’s presidential campaign. He was later hired by 
Colson, who was then serving as Special Counsel to President Nixon, 
to serve in the White House Special Investigations Unit. Hunt led 
a burglary of a psychiatrist’s office to seek information on Daniel 
Ellsberg (who had leaked the Pentagon Papers), used disguises and 
other tools to attempt to obtain damaging information about Edward 
Kennedy, and eventually organized the bugging of the Democratic 
National Committee at the Watergate. Hunt, along with Liddy, and 
the five burglars, were the first persons indicted by a grand jury 
on September 15, 1972. The payments for his and the other burglar’s 
silence was part of the key information found by The Washington 
Post that exposed the cover-up of the conspiracy.
Attention: When 
you use the action 
part of this card, 
move the momentum 
token first. If the 
momentum token was 
already claimed 
earlier during 
this round, draw 
and play the top 
card from your 
draw deck anyway.
-13-

-14-
John Mitchell
John Mitchell served as the Attorney General of the United States under Richard 
Nixon from 1969 through 1972. He had previously worked as director of Nixon’s 1968 
presidential campaign and was a close personal friend of the President. He also 
acted as director of Nixon’s re-election campaign in 1972. Immediately after the 
Watergate burglary, Mitchell enlisted the aid of a former FBI agent, Stephen King, 
to keep Mitchell’s wife, Martha, from learning about the incident and from talking 
to reporters. Mitchell was personally involved in planning the meetings to break 
into the Democratic National Committee. He met with the President on at least 
three occasions to conspire to cover-up the investigation. He was found guilty of 
conspiracy, obstruction of justice, and perjury and served nineteen months in prison.
John Ehrlichman
John Ehrlichman was counsel to the President and Assistant for Domestic Affairs. He 
served as an important figure in developing Nixon’s domestic policy. Ehrlichman worked 
for Nixon from 1960 until he joined the Nixon administration in 1969. Ehrlichman 
was one of the key figures involved in the creation of “The Plumbers,” the group 
that eventually organized the Watergate burglary. Ehrlichman was also an active 
participant in the cover-up of the Watergate scandal. He was eventually convicted of 
conspiracy, perjury, and obstruction of justice for his role.
Bob Woodward
Born in Geneva, Illinois, Bob Woodward attended Yale College where he studied history 
and English literature. He graduated in 1965 and then served for five years in the 
United States Navy, earning the rank of lieutenant. After his discharge, he was hired 
as a reporter by the Washington Post in 1971. Woodward, along with Carl Bernstein, was 
assigned to report on the Watergate burglary on June 17, 1972. Woodward’s investigative 
reporting, including the use of a confidential anonymous informant nicknamed “Deep 
Throat” proved indispensable in holding the Nixon White House accountable for its 
actions and ending the administration.
Carl Bernstein
Carl Bernstein grew up in Silver Spring, Maryland where he started his journalism 
career at the age of sixteen as a copy-boy for the Washington Star. Though never 
completing college, Bernstein’s journalism career flourished early when he won an award 
for investigative journalism while working for the Elizabeth Daily Journal in New 
Jersey. In 1966, he joined The Washington Post as a local news reporter. Bernstein, 
along with Bob Woodward, was assigned the Watergate burglary investigation the day 
after the arrests. Bernstein’s investigative reporting, particularly the tracing of 
funds paid to the burglars to Nixon’s re-election campaign, tied the campaign to the 
burglary and informed the public of the administration’s role in the conspiracy. 
Attention: This card is a reaction card. You can only use its action part as a direct response when the 
Editor uses the action part of an EVENT card. Play John Mitchell right away to cancel that action entirely. 
Then the Editor must discard their card unused to their discard pile. You may play John Mitchell as a re-
reaction to the EVENT card “Mass demonstration” (to perform the action blocked by “Mass demonstration”), 
but not to JOURNALIST Ben Bradlee.
THE JOURNALISTS

Ben Bradlee
Bradlee was the executive editor of the Washington Post from 1968 to 1991. Though 
born to a wealthy family in Boston, much of their fortune was lost as a result of 
the Great Depression. Bradlee attended Harvard College and thereafter served in the 
Office of Naval Intelligence. He fought in WWII, primarily in the Pacific theater. 
After returning home from WWII,he began working as a reporter for the Washington Post 
in 1948. Bradlee worked briefly in the government before returning as a reporter for 
Newsweek and later becoming the executive editor of the Washington Post. Bradlee was 
the editor responsible for supervising Woodward and Bernstein in their investigation 
of the Nixon administration. His work helped ensure that the reporting was completed, 
despite intense overt and covert pressure by the Nixon administration and others.
Attention: This card is a reaction card. You can only use its action part as a direct response when Nixon 
plays a CONSPIRATOR card and uses that CONSPIRATOR’s action part. Play Ben Bradlee right away to cancel 
that action entirely. Also Nixon must remove that CONSPIRATOR card from the game. You may play Bradlee as 
a re-reaction to CONSPIRATOR John Mitchell (to perform the EVENT blocked by Mitchell). 
Operation Gemstone
Operation Gemstone was 
a proposed series of 
clandestine or illegal 
acts in order to 
subvert the opposition. 
It was first outlined by 
Gordon Liddy together 
with John Mitchell, 
John Dean, and Jeb 
Magruder.
Attention: When played for its action 
part, this card has an alternative to 
being removed from the game afterwards: 
If, at the same time, you happen to hold 
a CONSPIRATOR card in hand, you may remove 
this CONSPIRATOR from the game to discard 
the “Gambit” card to your discard pile. 
Note that if you do, you’ll have one card 
fewer in hand to play this round.
Attention: You cannot use the action 
part of this card on your first turn of 
a round. Once you play the card and use 
its action part (on your second or a 
later turn), for the rest of the round, 
the Editor can play their EVENT cards 
only for their value part (not their 
action part). JOURNALISTS may still be 
played for their action part.
A brilliant mood
Gambit
OTHER CARDS
-15-

historical
insight on this 
topic, see
page 17.
historical insight 
on this topic, see 
the bottom of this 
page.
historical 
insight on this 
topic, see
page 21.
Attention: This card is 
a reaction card. You can 
only use its action part 
as a direct response when 
Nixon plays a CONSPIRATOR 
card and uses that 
CONSPIRATOR’s action part. 
Play “Mass demonstration” 
right away to cancel that 
action entirely. Also, 
Nixon must remove that 
CONSPIRATOR card from the game. You may 
play “Mass demonstration” as a re-reaction 
to CONSPIRATOR John Mitchell (to perform 
the EVENT blocked by Mitchell). 
Mass demonstration
Attention: When you use 
the action part of this 
card, look through all of 
YOUR cards that you have 
removed from the game. 
Choose one of them and use 
that card‘s action part 
now as if you had played 
it normally (it cannot 
be a reaction card). 
Afterwards, remove that 
card from the game again 
along with the “The system 
works” card. 
The system works
Attention: This card is a reaction 
card. You can only use its action 
part as a direct response when 
Nixon uses the value part of a 
card to move an evidence token. As 
soon as Nixon moves that evidence 
token, play “Follow the money” to 
cancel the movement. Then, move 
that same evidence token from its 
initial position as many spaces 
towards your side as the value part 
of Nixon’s card states. Then, Nixon 
must discard their card to their 
discard pile unused.
“Follow the money!”
“A Third-Rate Burglary”
The history behind the Watergate scandal
Introduction:
Watergate, which has come to be associated 
with arguably the most consequential political 
scandal in the history of the United States, is 
a building complex with 
apartments, offices, and 
a hotel. It was built 
on the site of the old 
Washington Gas Light 
Company property from 
1963 to 1971 along the 
banks of the Potomac 
River. In 1972, the Watergate was a beacon of 
new development in a city that had been dealing 
with the aftermath of the 1968 race riots and 
the continued protests of the war in Vietnam. 
No one at the beginning of 1972 would suspect 
that Watergate would become synonymous with 
corruption, political dirty tricks, election 
tampering, and a resignation of a United States 
President.
-16-

-17-
Prelude:
The Watergate scandal1 had its root in the public 
release of the Pentagon Papers2. Officially titled 
“Report of the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
Vietnam Task Force,” the Pentagon Papers were a 
detailed history of the United States’ political 
and military involvement in Vietnam from World 
War II to the start of the Vietnam War. The 
authors had access to top secret3 documents and 
wrote a thorough analysis without 
pulling any punches. One of the 
contributing analysts was Daniel 
Ellsberg, a former US Marine officer 
with a Harvard PhD. He was working at 
the Rand corporation as a military 
analyst when he became dissatisfied 
with the Vietnam War. Specifically, 
he was dismayed how the United States, from 
the Eisenhower to the Johnson administrations 
used its power to raise Ngo Dinh Diem into a 
position of power and kept him there, until he 
was eventually overthrown and assassinated in 
1963. Diem’s assassination was only possible with 
the help of the United States. Ellsberg and his 
friend, Anthony Russo, painstakingly photocopied 
the entire report in 1969. Eighteen months later, 
the papers were published by several American 
newspapers.
While President Nixon initially enjoyed the 
embarrassment the Pentagon Papers caused the 
Democrats (specifically Kennedy and Johnson), 
he became concerned that further release of 
classified materials could hurt his standing on 
the world stage and the delicate negotiations 
going on with China at that time. Concurrently, 
the Nixon administration was also dealing with a 
significant number of leaks, therefore the release 
of the Pentagon Papers added to the 
concern. In an effort to discredit 
Ellsberg, 
Nixon’s 
counsel, 
John 
Ehrlichman first attempted to get a 
psychiatric write up by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, but when 
FBI 
produced 
an 
unhelpful 
report, the Plumbers were called in.
Plumbers:
The Plumbers4 were a group led by former CIA 
agents acting as covert political operatives, 
whose job was stopping leaks at the White House 
and conducting clandestine political actions 
known as “dirty tricks.” The Plumbers were funded 
through the President’s re-election fund. During 
the presidential election of 1972, they had found 
ways to embarrass two democratic presidential 
candidates who eventually dropped out the race, 
leaving an unremarkable Senator McGovern of South 
Dakota as Nixon’s Democratic opponent. 
The Plumbers decided to break into Ellsberg’s 
psychiatrist’s office to get more information on 
Ellsberg. After several botched attempts during 
the Labor Day weekend of 1971, the Plumbers were 
finally able to break into the Los Angeles medical 
offices, crowbarring open the file cabinet to 
discover Ellsberg’s medical files were not there.
The Break-In:
1972 was an election year, and 
President Nixon had told his 
re-election team, “Do whatever 
it takes.” to win the election. 
Charles Colson, who was Nixon’s 
hatchet-man, brought in E. Howard 
Hunt. Ehrlichman brought in G. 
Gordon Liddy. Liddy was a lawyer, 
Army veteran, and former FBI field 
agent who so believed in Nixon’s 
conservatism that he had no moral qualms about 
breaking the law to secure the president a second 
term. Liddy had been reckless during his FBI days, 
including getting caught using FBI resources to 
provide a background check on his future wife. 
No one in the White House knew about Liddy’s 
recklessness, but they were well aware of his 
achievements in catching a top ten most wanted 
fugitive and being the youngest FBI bureau chief 
in history.

-18-
money he [Nixon] paid for it.” In that meeting, 
Liddy told Mitchell6 that he would “correct 
matters.”
Hunt initially did not want to return to the 
Watergate, claiming the risk was too great. 
Liddy persisted, even telling Hunt “the Big Man 
[Mitchell] says he wants the operation.” Hunt 
acquiesced, and they planned the next break-in. 
Like the first one, the men were going to tape up 
the doors with picked locks to make sure they had 
an easy and timely escape route. 
Alfred C. Baldwin was the lookout 
in the Howard Johnson hotel with 
two-way radios, one to McCord and 
one to Hunt. McCord had told the 
team that he had taped the doors 
and the team was waiting for the 
all clear. The break-in team had 
to wait until after 1 am on June 
18th, 1972 for the DNC offices to 
clear7. 
A few minutes after the operation started, the 
team members came back to the hotel room, saying 
the tape on the doors had been taken off. After 
a few minutes of discussions, Liddy decided 
to restart the operation with the Cuban-born 
locksmith Virgilio Gonzalez re-picking the locks 
with US-born Cuban freedom fighter Frank Sturgis 
protecting him. McCord’s radio was producing too 
much static and was turned off, thereby preventing 
Baldwin from warning the men inside Watergate. 
Within a few minutes, the burglary team was at the 
back door of the DNC office to photograph documents 
and add additional electronic listening devices 
to the phones. The back door lock proved to be 
too difficult to pick so the burglars removed the 
door from its hinges. Although accounts differ on 
what actually happened, at some point McCord re-
taped the doors. A security guard by the name of 
Frank Wills noticed that the doors had been taped 
a second time and called the police8. 
Three plain clothes policemen9 responded to the 
call. Baldwin10 probably didn’t recognize the 
three hippies as officers. As Gonzalez was opening 
the door to O’Brien’s offices, the other men were 
photographing pictures. Around 2 am, the officers 
caught the five men, and Baldwin radioed to Liddy 
and Hunt that the men had been arrested and they 
need to run. Hunt and Liddy departed the area. 
Hunt made a U-turn and went to the Howard Johnson 
Howard 
Hunt 
Gordon 
Liddy 
were the go-betweens between the 
Plumbers and the White House senior 
staff. 
Liddy 
developed 
several 
covert 
political 
operations, 
called 
Operation 
Gemstone, 
to 
embarrass the Democrats, including 
kidnapping 
anti-war 
protesters, 
luring the opposition onto boats 
with prostitutes to get compromising 
pictures, etc. Those operations 
were never approved. One plan the 
administration did approve was the 
attempt to discover embarrassing 
information about what they were 
sure to be Democratic Party covert 
operations. Liddy and Hunt had come 
up with the idea5 of breaking into 
the Democratic National Committee 
(DNC)’s headquarters in the Watergate complex. 
In early May of 1972, Liddy tasked 
Hunt and James McCord to set up 
the operation to wiretap the DNC’s 
phones and photograph campaign 
operations 
materials. 
Through 
money 
siphoned 
from 
campaign 
contributions, these men along 
with several others (including 
Miami based anti-Castro Cubans), 
purchased equipment, rented a hotel 
room in the former Howard Johnson’s across the 
street, and began running reconnaissance missions 
to create a plan of action. The plan included 
taping the door locks and posting a look out from 
the Howard Johnson Hotel across the street.
The burglars successfully broke into the DNC’s 
office on May 28, 1972 and planted electronic 
listening devices on the phones of DNC chairman 
Larry O’ Brien and executive director Robert 
Oliver. Liddy and Hunt thought the operation was 
a success until they realized that the electronic 
bug on O’Brien’s phone wasn’t 
working. Additionally, Oliver’s 
phone wasn’t producing effective 
intelligence. Former US Attorney 
General 
Nixon 
re-election 
campaign manager, John Mitchell, 
reviewed the files produced by the 
initial break-in and told Liddy 
“it is worthless and not worth the 

-19-
The Cover-Up:
The Washington DC police, realizing they weren’t 
dealing with ordinary thieves, called in the FBI 
to help them identify the strange devices the 
men were carrying. The FBI agent immediately 
recognized the devices as electronic bugs, 
discovered Hunt’s name in the burglar’s address 
books, and, as someone had seen 
McCord at the Howard Johnson’s, 
searched the rooms rented by Hunt 
and gathered their phone records. 
At the same time, John Dean, White 
House Counsel, had just returned 
from the Philippines, President 
Nixon was waiting to fly back to 
Washington from his house in Key 
Biscayne, and DNC’s O’Brien was 
telling anyone who would listen 
that this break-in must have a 
full investigation.
On June 23, 1972, Nixon and his top 
two advisors, Ehrlichman and Chief 
of Staff Bob Haldeman, debated how 
to cover up the administration‘s 
involvement. Dean, realizing the 
negative publicity implications of the break-in, 
discussed the issue with Ehrlichman, who ordered 
him to destroy all the documents in Hunt’s safe 
at the Plumbers’ offices. Dean, with FBI Acting 
Director Patrick Gray, did eventually destroy all 
the documents. While Nixon didn’t initially know 
about the break-in, he did order the CIA to impede 
(if not block) the FBI investigation12. 
In the meantime, the Washington Post reported 
that a GOP security aide, McCord, was a security 
officer for the GOP re-election committee. Mitchell 
denied any connection between the White House and 
the burglars. A day later Press Secretary Ziegler 
utters the famous phrase “a third-rate burglary” 
in his press conference in refusing to talk about 
it. Furthermore, on August 29, 1972, Nixon held a 
news conference saying “I can say categorically 
that … no one in the White House staff, no one 
in this administration, presently employed, was 
involved in this very bizarre incident” because 
John Dean had conducted a thorough investigation. 
No evidence has ever been found that Dean conducted 
an investigation of this matter.
Follow the Money:
Once the cover-up had been fully established and 
the press had moved on to other targets, Dean, 
Ehrlichman, and Colson started to work on paying 
off the burglars so that they wouldn’t talk and 
implicate the Committee to Re-elect the President 
(CRP) or the White House. The Administration kept 
lying to the investigators at every turn. Nixon 
was so far ahead in the polls that everyone knew 
Nixon would be the President for the next four 
years, and the investigation would be limited 
shortly after the elections. Acting FBI Director 
Gray kept Dean abreast of how the investigation 
was proceeding, including providing copies of the 
investigator’s notes and next planned actions. 
The administration knew exactly what was going on 
and was able to prepare for it. 
However, Liddy, Hunt, and the 
burglars needed money for their 
legal defense and living expenses. 
So Colson and the CRP bookkeeper 
Hugh Sloan funneled money from 
legitimate campaign contributions 
to the burglars through various 
banks and Liddy. Sloan later 
testified 
that 
Magruder 
finance director Maurice Stans 
had directed him to give the money to Liddy. 
Unbeknownst to them, the banks kept a record 
of all the transactions for six months, which 
came to light during the investigation and 
trials of the burglars. At some point during the 
investigation, Liddy, Hunt, and the five burglars 
were tied to the CRP.
to start making phone calls to line up lawyers 
and bail money. Baldwin then took McCord’s van, 
with bugging devices and incriminating files, to 
McCord’s house in Rockville, Maryland11. The break-
in was over and the cover-up was about to begin.

-20-
The Watergate burglars, having been indicted, 
were now under the jurisdiction of United States 
District Court Judge John Sirica, who had the habit 
of giving out lengthy court sentences and had the 
nickname of “Maximum John.” With money running 
out and no effective help from his employers, Hunt 
began asking for more and more money, telling his 
friend Colson “We’re protecting the guys who are 
really responsible … This is a two-way street.” 
On December 8, Hunt’s wife Dorothy died in an 
airplane crash, and authorities recovered $10,000 
in $100 bills from her purse. Moreover, McCord 
had started to provide information to the CIA in 
exchange for help in reducing the charges against 
him.
But the re-election rolled on. On July 1, Mitchell 
resigned from the Nixon re-election campaign 
due to “family reasons.” On September 29, the 
press ran stories about how Mitchell controlled a 
slush fund for political dirty tricks. On October 
10, the FBI announced the connection between 
the burglary and political spying. On November 
7, Nixon won the re-election by winning every 
state except Massachusetts and the District of 
Columbia. In the White House, there was a sense of 
great relief, and Nixon felt emboldened to start 
working on his plan to reshape the government to 
his ideals. Nixon left Washington for Camp David, 
a presidential retreat, to work out his next four 
years, but the troubles were just starting.
Scandal Widens:
Judge Sirica and the press were starting to get 
wind of just how big of a scandal the Watergate 
break-in was to become. Just before Christmas, 
Judge Sirica said in a pre-trial hearing that he 
wanted the Jury to know how these men were paid, 
what were the motives of those paying them, and 
who came up with this plan. At the start of the 
trial, Sirica still did not know the answers to 
these questions.
Just as the trial started, the New York Times 
published a story that the Cuban Americans 
involved in the break-in reported they had been 
on the salary of the CRP and that there was 
a $900,000 slush fund for their activities. 
The story even mentioned the chain of command 
going from Barker to Hunt to Liddy to Colson to 
Mitchell. The administration and Mitchell flatly 
denied the story outright. After the story broke, 
all the defendants pleaded guilty. Judge Sirica 
was furious and delayed their sentencing to see 
if more information about the conspiracy could 
be obtained. 
At the same time, the Democrats who controlled 
both houses of Congress were eager to embarrass 
the administration. The senate voted 77-0 to 
convene a special investigation that was headed 
by Senator Sam Ervin of North Carolina. Nixon 
worried about the Senate investigation, but 
knew testimony would start in several months. 
Nixon was hopeful of using his usual tactics of 
intimidation and discrediting his opponents to 
further reduce his political problems. Sensing 
an opportunity to distract the public, Nixon 
nominated Gray to be FBI director. Little did 
Nixon realize the opportunity he was giving the 
Democrats in the Senate.
Gray lacked the ruthlessness and intelligence 
that typified members of Nixon’s administration. 
On February 28th, Gray told the Senators that he 
had been providing John Dean constant updates on 
the FBI’s Watergate investigation. The Senators 
couldn’t believe what they were hearing and 
subpoenaed Dean to testify, but President Nixon 
refused to allow it on the grounds of attorney-
client and executive privileges. On March 8th, 
Gray informed the Senators that Ehrlichman also 
knew about the FBI investigation. 
On March 20th, Sirica held court to sentence the 
seven men arrested for the Watergate break-in. 
Judge Sirica theatrically told those assembled 
that he’d like to read a letter from McCord. The 
letter stated that the seven defendants felt 
political pressure to plead guilty, several of 
those that testified had committed perjury and 
others that were involved in the planning and 
financing the break-in have not testified in this 
case, including White House staff. The judge then 
called a recess to allow all the reporters to 
call in their stories. Judge Sirica had scooped 
both the White House and the press corp. 

-21-
When the break was over, Sirica sentenced all the 
men to maximum sentences with a provision that it 
would be re-evaluated in three months, with the 
exception of Liddy. Judge Sirica said the sentences 
could be shortened based on the testimony the 
defendants gave the Ervin commission.
Prior to Sirica’s reading of McCord’s letter, 
Woodward and Bernstein of the Washington Post 
were almost alone in publishing articles about 
the cover up and conspiracy. They relied heavily 
on a source called Deep Throat. Papers like the 
Chicago Tribune would print articles relying on 
the administration’s version of events which 
specifically contradicted the Post. In fact, much 
of the press had not been paying attention to 
the Watergate break-in due to the basic belief 
that a sitting President would not break the law 
in such a crass amateur way. Despite President 
Nixon’s constant battle with the press, the press 
was reluctant to take on a sitting President. 
However, once McCord’s letter was read into the 
public record, the press was fully committed 
to 
investigating 
administration. 
relationship between the press and Nixon, which 
had never been cordial, had gotten much worse.
The Ervin commission now had McCord’s admission 
and Gray’s confirmation of the administration’s 
oversight 
of 
FBI 
investigation. 
administration felt the need to get ahead of the 
Senate and on March 28th, Nixon had Ehrlichman 
tell Attorney General Richard Kleindienst that no 
one in the administration had any foreknowledge 
of the break-in. Nixon hadn’t realized that his 
time to get ahead of the situation had passed. On 
April 13th, Magruder told the US Attorney that he 
had perjured himself. Four days later, Dean told 
Nixon that he too was cooperating with the US 
Attorneys. After a couple of weeks of indecision, 
Nixon fired his three most important advisors: 
Ehrlichman, Haldeman, and Dean, and asked for the 
resignation of the Attorney General. On the same 
day, Nixon appointed Elliott Richardson as Acting 
Attorney General and gave him the ability to hire 
a special counsel to investigate the Watergate 
break-in. Richardson hired Archibald Cox.
Ervin 
commission 
televised 
all 
proceedings from May 17 through August 7, 1973. 
Nielsen ratings estimated that 85% of Americans 
with televisions watched part of the hearing. 
Dean was the commission’s star witness. He told 
the world about the recording devices, senior 
administration knowledge of the cover-up, and 
perjury of its members. The biggest news was 
the admission of the recording devices in the 
Oval Office. The Senate and the American public 
were stunned by the admission. Immediately both 
the commission and Special Counsel subpoenaed 
the tapes. Nixon refused, invoking executive 
privilege. Cox and the commission sued. Now the 
release of the most explosive evidence was in the 
hands of the court.
In midst of the Watergate scandal, Nixon was 
forced to deal with growing legal problems of 
his Vice President, Spiro Agnew of Baltimore, 
Maryland. The Wall Street Journal published an 
article describing the secret investigation of 
Agnew when he was Governor of Maryland. Shortly 
thereafter, allegations arose of Agnew taking 
bribes as Vice President. The Baltimore federal 
prosecutor obtained significant evidence against 
the Vice President. Agnew fought the charges 
and conducted a public messaging announcing, “I 
will not resign if indicted!” Eventually, Agnew 
agreed to resign on October 10, 1973 to avoid 
jail time and became the first Vice President to 
do so because of criminal behavior13. 
Nixon and Cox quarreled over the subpoena and 
Nixon demanded that Cox drop it. Cox refused. Nixon 
ordered Attorney General Richardson to fire Cox on 
October 20, 1973. Richardson resigned rather than 
fire him. Nixon then ordered Richardson’s number 
two to fire Cox and he resigned too. Finally, Nixon 
found a senior enough person who was willing to 
fire Cox in the person of Solicitor General Robert 
Bork. The press and the Democrats were outraged 
by the firing and Nixon’s poll numbers continued 
to plummet.
In attempt to restore some credibility, Nixon 
allowed for the hiring of Leon Jaworski, a GOP 
stalwart, to take over the investigation. Much to 
Nixon’s chagrin, Jaworski took his duties seriously 
and became an even bigger problem for Nixon.
Saturday Night Massacre and Resignations:

-22-
The End:
On July 20, 1974, the United States Supreme 
Court ruled unanimously that Nixon must release 
the tapes, and he complied. As the tapes became 
public record, Nixon and his advisors, Alexander 
Haig and Henry Kissinger, started to talk about 
which strategy to pursue in light of the Articles 
of Impeachment having passed the House Juiciary 
Committee in February. Nixon was truly conflicted.
The release of the Nixon Tapes 
created a firestorm in the press 
and with the public. Most notably, 
there was an 18 ½ minute gap in 
the June 20, 1974 tape. Nixon’s 
personal 
secretary, 
Rose 
Mary 
Woods, took responsibility for 
the erasure. Woods testified that 
the deletion was an accident. She 
demonstrated the “stretch” for 
photographers that might have caused the gap. 
Many experts and Nixon opponents were skeptical 
of Ms. Woods assertions and felt the erasure to 
be deliberate.
The final nail in the Nixon Administration was 
the August 5, 1974 release of the June 23, 
1972 recording which became the “Smoking Gun” 
tape. Nixon had recorded the entire conversation 
between himself and Haldeman talking about the 
Watergate break-in and how they were going to 
cover it up. All of Nixon’s lies were laid out, 
and the public was demanding his impeachment. Two 
Republican Senators and a Republican Congressman 
visited Nixon two days later and told him 
that his impeachment would pass the House of 
1 Even though we use the singular “scandal” here, the 
plural “scandals“ would be more appropriate because 
the avalanche of scandals include more than a break-
in of a political rival’s office.
2 The Pentagon Papers have been declassified and can be 
found on the US Archives website:
https://www.archives.gov/research/pentagon-papers 
3 The US Military has many security classifications. We 
use the generic “Top Secret” to mean an unspecified 
security clearance was necessary to review the 
documents.
4 The name reportedly comes from a conversation David 
Young had with his grandmother. She asked “What do you 
do at the White House?” He responded “I am helping 
the president stop some leaks.” So she said “You’re a 
plumber.” The name stuck.
5 Liddy in his book “Will” contends that the plan came 
from Jeb McGruder, Deputy Director of the Committee 
for the Re-Election of the President (CRP). McGruder 
denied the creation of the plan, but did authorize it.
6 Mitchell denied being told about the bugging of the 
DNC offices, but McGruder and Liddy say otherwise.
Footnotes
Representatives, and the conviction proceedings 
in the Senate would ruin the administration. 
They encouraged him to resign to save the GOP 
and himself from the ultimate embarrassment of 
impeachment.
August 7, 1974, President Nixon became the only 
person to resign as President of the United States.

7 Liddy and team thought the DNC was working late when 
it was a volunteer using the DNC’s WATS line to call 
his friends around the country. Long distance calls 
were very expensive in 1972.
8 In an amusing turn of events, Wills had called his 
supervisor the first time about taped doors. His 
supervisor told him to recheck and call back if he 
found any other taped doors. Wills ran into the DNC 
volunteer who had been making phone calls and they 
decided to grab a meal at Howard Johnson’s across 
the street. Wills remembered an hour later to check 
the doors. If he had done so immediately, the second 
break-in might not ever been mentioned to the police.
9 Their names were Sergeant Paul Leeper, Officer John 
Barrett, and Office Carl Shoffler.
10 Baldwin testified and was the only member of the 
Watergate break-in not to be charged.
11 The FBI never searched McCord’s van and thereby 
lost many months and potentially important 
documents about the White House’s involvement in 
the Watergate break-in.
12 Nixon and the late FBI director Hoover did not get 
along and were deeply suspicious of each other. It 
was only after Hoover’s death that Nixon started 
to exert control, but it was limited at best.
13 Vice President John C. Calhoun resigned on December 
28, 1832 due to deep policy disagreements with 
President Andrew Jackson.
Recommended sources for more information:
Watergate is a fascinating subject which can be studied for years. Here are the sources relied upon for 
this historical feature:
John Dean, Blind Ambition: The White House Years New York, Simon & Schuster 1976 (Updated forward 2006)
Fred Emery, Watergate: The Corruption of American Politics and the Fall of Richard Nixon London, Random 
House 1994
Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, All the President’s Men New York, Simon & Schuster 1974
Richard Nixon et al, Transcripts of the White House tapes Washington DC, National Archives
https://www.archives.gov/open/nixon/37-wht-dataset-conversationlist.html
Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities, Gavel-to-Gavel Televised sessions Washington DC, 
American Archive of Public Broadcasting
http://americanarchive.org/exhibits/watergate
Game Design: Matthias Cramer
Graphic Design: atelier 198
Development and rulebook: Viktor Kobilke
Rulebook revision: Neil Crowley and Travis Hill
Biographies (p. 11-15): Andrew Ranks
Historical outline (p. 16-23): Phillip Millman
CREDITS
© 2019 Frosted Games, Matthias Nagy, Sieglindestr. 7, 12159 Berlin, Germany.
/CapstoneGames
@Capstone_Games
@Capstone_Games
-23-
© 2019 CAPSTONE GAMES, 339 Smith Drive, Clayton, OH 45315.
All rights reserved.
For more information, visit us at: www.capstone-games.com