RULEBOOK

Welcome to the Krosmoz.
The Krosmoz: An immense universe containing so many things, we 
wouldn’t even know where to start making a list. It is, above all else, 
known for a little planet called the World of Twelve. It is there that 
millions of adventurers live their daily lives. And though you won’t find 
two of a kind, they all secretly want the same thing: Dofus—dragon eggs 
with incredible powers.
In the Outerworld parallel dimension, the Demons of the Hours and 
Minutes like to skip out on their jobs as the watchers of time to visit 
the Arena. Here, warriors from the World of Twelve, kidnapped by the 
Demons, fight in never-ending duels to the obvious delight of their 
captors.
The latest arrivals to the Arena are causing quite a stir, in fact. You see, 
the Demons have recently discovered the story of Julith, Joris, Grampy, 
and all the others. A story they liked so much, that they want to see it 
again and again… And rather than wait for the book to come out, they 
simply kidnapped the heroes!
This Krosmaster Arena boxed set will allow you to slip into the slimy 
scales of one of these Demons. Choose a handful of Arena fighters—the 
Krosmasters—and face an enemy team in scenery taken straight from 
the movie Dofus Book 1: Julith. Experience a game where your sense of 
tactics will really be put to the test!
The next few pages will gradually introduce the pieces and the rules 
of Krosmaster Arena. If this is your first time playing the game, we 
recommend that you take a look. But if you feel ready for the full board 
game, head directly to the Game Rules!
- INTRODUCTION
SUMMARY -
Welcome to the Krosmoz.
Th
t i i
thi
WELCOME TO THE KROSMOZ 
 
PAGE 2
SUMMARY 
 
 
 
 
PAGE 3
 
 
 
PAGES 4-5
PART I: TUTORIALS 
 
 
PAGES 6-19
 
PART II: RULES OF THE GAME 
 
PAGES 20-25
 
 
PART III: APPENDIX 
 
 
PAGES 26-31
 
 
 
GAME HELP 
 
 
 
PAGE 32
: U
S 6 9
II: RULES OF THE GAME
PAGES 20-25
III: APPENDIX 
PAGES 26-31
AG
 
1 – Right in the Kisser! 
 
Pages 6-7
 
2 – My Very First Spell 
 
Pages 8-9
 
3 – Summoning: It’s an Art Form 
Pages 10-11
 
4 – Two Are Better Than One 
 
Pages 12-13
 
5 – Out With the Old 
 
 
Pages 14-15
 
6 – Unfinished Sympathy 
 
Pages 16-17
 
7 – Village, Town: Soldier Tactics 
Pages 18-19
 
The Basics 
 
 
 
Page 20
 
Start of the Game 
 
 
Page 21
 
Game Turn 
 
 
 
Page 22
 
MP and AP 
 
 
 
Page 23
 
Casting a Spell 
 
 
Pages 24-25
 
Summons Token 
 
 
Page 26
 
Powers 
 
 
 
Page 27
 
Scenery 
 
 
 
Page 27
 
Demonic Rewards 
 
 
Pages 28-29
 
Advanced Rules 
 
 
Page 30
 
F.A.Q. 
 
 
 
Page 31

- Box Contents
Box Contents -
Push back 2. Inﬂ icts +3 
 if the target was 
P6
ake. For 
strange 
range little 
a column.
orse. Don’t 
was s 
tcts
cts
ctctsts
not push
1 - 2
Powe
Powe
we
Arme
In life, th
example
little boy
boy, and
Committ
say we d
Arme
boy,
8 Krosmaster Arena exclusives, taken from DOFUS the Movie ! 
KROSMASTER FIGURES
AP: Action Points are used to 
attack your enemies and carry 
out various actions.
HP: When a character has 
suffered as many Injuries as 
they have Health Points, they 
are eliminated.
Range: The Range of a spell 
indicates the distance to the 
target, in number of cells.
History : A short background 
so you can learn a little bit 
more about the character’s 
life.
Powers: These are the 
character’s special abilities.
Spell Damage: This is the 
number of Injuries inflicted 
on an enemy character. 
Some spells don’t cause 
any damage.
Information about a Krosmaster can be found on 
their character card.
Action Points
 (AP) Markers.
Range Markers.
Movement Points 
(MP) Markers. 
CHARACTER CARDS
+1/-1 AP
+1/-1 RANGE
+1/-1 MP
These coins can be used to buy Demonic Rewards or Gallons of 
Glory.
The game board gives you two combat Arenas. Each Arena has different places for scenery 
items (stalls, crates, and bags) as well as Demon Cells, Kama Cells, and Starting Cells.
KAMA TOKENS
DOUBLE-SIDED GAME BOARD
DICE
The famous “Gallons of Glory”
— you can’t win without them.
¨GG¨ TOKENS
Carefully remove the bags, stalls, and crates, then 
assemble them as shown above. Follow the instructions 
printed on the inside of the crates and stalls.
These tokens represent anything your Krosmasters are capable 
of summoning into the Arena: creatures, bombs, traps...
SCENERY PIECES
SUMMONS TOKENS
To improve your Krosmasters during the game, the Demons offer three levels 
of Demonic Rewards: Granite (weak), Jade (average), and Silver (strong).
Once an award has been revealed, you will find out if it’s a Boost (instant), 
Buff (temporary), or Equipment (permanent).
DEMONIC REWARD TOKENS
f
’
l d
ill fi d
d h
MP: Movement Points are used 
to move around.
Initiative: That’s how fast the 
character is.
Level: That’s the character’s 
overall strength.
Spell Cost: That’s the number 
of AP you have to use to cast 
the spell.
2 1
Madame Butcher
J25I66ZDVKEXFNOHU
Push back 
© 20
© 20
 
 
01/02/2016 0
In life, there are certain mist
example: upsetting a strang
little boy get his hands on a
boy, and ﬁ nally, ﬁ nding you
Committing these mistakes
Pu
stakes
nge littl
a swo
ourself
es in t
Critical.
Achilles’ Feels!
The greatest Huppermage of all time, who fears no enemy, 
saw himself defeated by the power of love. Men are all the 
same! Invincible with their sword in their hands, but give them 
a peck on the cheek... 
2638-CAR-ANG 
Huppermage - Bonta - Boss
Used to record the state of a character’s 
health.
INJURY MARKERS
X8
X8
X50
X15
X10
X18
X60
X50
X4
X1

Let’s start slowly with the basics: game turns, how to move your character, and 
then get into a fist-fight. Read the tutorial, and when you feel ready, you can 
play your first game directly on the right-hand page!
A game of Krosmaster Arena is divided into game turns. On your turn, you will 
be able to move your figure and make it attack. Then, it will be your enemy’s turn, 
then yours again, and so on until one of you wins.
Each turn, your character will have Movement Points (MP) and Action Points 
(AP) to spend. MP are used to move whilst AP are used to attack. You can use 
your character’s MP and AP in any order you like, alternating as many times as 
you want.
For example, Joris may spend 2 MP to move, then 5 AP to attack, then 1 more 
MP to move again.
MOVING
During your turn, your character can move a number of cells equal to the MP score 
shown on their card. Joris can therefore move 3 cells because he has 3 MP.
Adjacent Cells
Two cells are adjacent when they share a common border. 
When you’re moving, diagonal cells are never counted: you can 
only move your figure to an adjacent cell.
When two characters are adjacent, it can also be said that they 
are “in contact”, or “in close combat”.
Impassable Cells
A character can neither pass through nor stop on a cell containing a bag or 
another figure.
Locking (Lock versus Dodge)
If your character wishes to leave a cell adjacent to an enemy (also known as 
“disengaging” or “leaving close combat”), they may be Locked!
Your opponent rolls 1 die and if they get a 
 they have successfully 
Locked your character.
You also roll 1 die and if you get 
 your character successfully 
Dodges.
If your character is not Locked AND you successfully Dodge, your character may 
continue their turn as normal.
If your character is Locked AND you fail your Dodge Roll, your character is “Locked”: 
They immediately lose 3 AP and 3 MP for the current turn.
If your character is not Locked AND you fail your Dodge Roll, or if your character 
is Locked AND your Dodge Roll is successful, your character is “Caught”, and 
immediately loses 1 AP and 1 MP for the current turn.
If your character still has any MP left after the Lock Roll and Dodge Roll are 
resolved, you may move your figure. 
PUNCHING
During each turn, your character can spend as many Action Points as the AP 
score shown on their card. A Krosmaster normally has several spells to use, but 
for your first fight they will only be using their fists. To hit someone, all you have 
to do is be in a cell adjacent to your enemy’s character and use 5 AP. Each hit 
inflicts 1 damage to your opponent. A Krosmaster can only use one Punch per 
turn!
With his 6 AP, Joris can only Punch once per turn, since punching something 
“costs” 5 AP. After punching, he only has 1 AP left, which is not enough to Punch 
a second time. The remaining AP is lost at the end of the turn.
Critical Hit Roll
A “Critical Hit” is a particularly well-aimed attack or one that uses extreme force. 
When your character punches, roll 1 die and try to get a Critical Hit!
If the die shows a 
es, 
oll 1
e an
, it’s a Critical Hit!
If the die shows any other result, such as 
cal H
it!
, the hit is 
applied as normal, but it’s not a Critical Hit so you don’t benefit from the Critical 
Hit bonus.
However, your opponent is far from defenseless, and you have to compare your 
attack efficiency to their defense.
Armor Roll
When your character suffers an attack, its armor may cancel out part of the 
damage received. Roll 1 die to find out if your armor absorbs the hit:
If the die shows a 
to fi
out 
, the armor absorbs the shock and it’s a 
Skillful Defense!
If the die shows any other result, such as 
, you don’t 
benefit from Skillful Defense.
Once you have made the Critical Hit Roll and Armor Roll, determine how many 
Injuries your enemy suffers.
If there were more Critical Hits than Skillful Defenses, the attack damage is 
increased by 1. On the other hand, if there were more Skillful Defenses than 
Critical Hits, the attack damage is reduced by 1. In the event of a tie, the attack 
does the damage printed on the spell.
Place a number of Injury markers equal the amount of damage done on your 
victim’s card. If that character now has as many Injury markers as Health Points 
(HP), they are K.O.’d.
Injuries Inflicted = Basic Damage (Printed on the Spell) + Result of the Rolls 
(Rolled on the dice)
Knock 
out 
the 
opposing 
Krosmaster 
(Reminder: a character is K.O.’d when they 
have received as many Injuries as their HP).
Place the rulebook between the two players. 
For this first game, you will need 2 bags, 2 
figures (Lilotte and Joris), some dice, and 
some Injury markers.
Place a bag on each corresponding square. 
Joris starts this duel with an advantage.
Place Lilotte and Joris on their starting cells. Joris 
plays first because he has a higher Initiative 
score (
first
) than Lilotte (
has
OK, OK, I do like a bit of squabbling. Before we start getting serious, why 
don’t you help Joris win against that little brat Lilotte? Come on, off you 
go! The best line of defense is attack! Great timing! Joris is the fastest, 
so use that to your advantage.
Haha! That reminds me of my first fights with my brother. It almost 
brings a tear to my eye. Well, the main thing is to make sure you hit as 
hard as you can. I want you to really concentrate on throwing those dice!
Pu
Pun
nch
ch
Action Points (AP)
Act
O
so
ost
as
ce!
J25I6
J25I6
J25I6 6ZDVKEXFNOHU
Bl
Bl
Right in the Kisser!
- Tutorial 1 -
 
 
(Printed on the spell)
(Rolled on the dice)
INJURIES 
INFLICTED 
BASIC 
DAMAGE 
RESULT OF THE 
THROWS

Now that you know how to hit people and move your character, we’re going to 
move on to the next stage: Attack spells and powers. All Krosmasters can use 
Punch, but this attack is never written on their character card because it’s very 
rarely used. In fact, a Krosmaster is often a great deal more effective when 
using an attack spell. You’ll soon understand why.
Each character has their own special abilities, called “powers”, which help 
them to deal Critical Hits, to better absorb damage with their Armor, to Lock 
more easily, or to Dodge more effectively.
To see this, we will follow a battle between two powerful fighters: Grampy and 
Julith.
ATTACK SPELLS
When your character wants to attack with a spell, it’s a bit like punching: check if 
your target is in range and if you can see it, then spend the required AP. The spell 
inflicts the damage shown in the colored circle on the right. And don’t forget to 
roll the dice for the Critical Hit and Armor Rolls!
Julith’s favorite attack is Hupperkap. Just like Punch, this spell is cast against an 
opponent in an adjacent cell.
Hupperkap costs 3 AP to cast. With 7 AP, Julith can cast this spell twice per turn 
(which costs her a total of 6 AP)! That’s much better than Punch already! Now 
you understand why Julith doesn’t use Punch very often: She can only Punch 
once per turn, whereas she can use her Hupperkap twice.
Hupperkap inflicts 1 damage each time it is cast. Don’t worry about the color of 
the damage score right now, we’ll come back to it later.
Grampy is a seasoned adventurer and he has more than one trick up his old 
sleeve. In his younger days, he liked close combat, but now he prefers ranged 
duels. He can attack his enemy with his Gahfeld spell if both of the following 
conditions are met:
1 – Julith is within range of the spell.
2 – There is a clear “Line of Sight” between Grampy and Julith.
If Julith is within range of the Gahfeld spell and there is a clear Line of Sight 
between Grampy and Julith, the spell can be cast. It costs 5 AP (so Grampy can 
cast it only once per turn because he has 7 AP) and inflicts 1 damage. As for all 
attack spells, you must roll the dice for Critical Hits and Armor.
1 – CHECK THE RANGE
Grampy must be within range of the spell—in other 
words, 2 or 3 cells away. This distance is counted from 
a cell adjacent to the one Grampy is standing on and 
you never count diagonally (just like when you move). 
The cells that are in range of Grampy’s Gahfeld spell 
are shown in green (2 or 3 cells away). The red cells 
are not in range.
2 – CHECK THE LINE OF SIGHT
To make sure that Grampy can “see” his target, he 
must be able to trace an imaginary line from the center 
of his own cell to the center of his enemy’s cell. This 
line must not cut into any cells which block the Line of 
Sight. Cells occupied by a character or stall block his 
view. Bags never block a character’s view. 
 : Clear Line of Sight.
 : No Line of Sight.
POWERS
Powers are special abilities or talents that change the rules. For this fight, 
Grampy has the Armor and Dodge powers, while Julith has Critical and Lock.
Grampy’s Powers
Armor: When Grampy makes an Armor Roll, roll 2 dice instead of just 1. Each 
 
 counts as a Skillful Defense!
Dodge: When Grampy performs a Dodge Roll to escape Julith’s Lock, roll 2 dice 
instead of just 1. Each 
 is a success.
If Grampy’s Dodge Roll counts more successes than Julith’s Lock Roll, Grampy 
can leave close combat with no further ado. If the opposite happens, it’s a 
catastrophe for Grampy: Grampy is Locked and immediately loses 3 MP and 3 
AP. He can only leave close combat with Julith if he still has MP left.
In the event of a draw, he is Caught, immediately loses 1 MP and 1 AP, and if he 
still has any MP left, he could leave close combat with Julith.
Julith’s Powers
Critical: When Julith attacks with a spell, roll 2 dice instead of just 1 for the 
Critical Hit Roll. Each 
 counts as a Critical Hit.
Lock: When Julith performs a Lock Roll to trap Grampy in close combat, roll 2 dice 
instead of just 1. Each 
 is a success. Grampy will have to get a higher 
number of successes to avoid losing AP and MP.
Ah, now here’s a fight I’d like to see. Two creatures at the top of their game 
battling it out to defend their beliefs! Grampy is solid, but he has a weak point. 
He’s much stronger at a distance than he is in close combat, so he needs to be 
backed into a corner so he can be pummeled at close range, Julith’s specialty, 
and he mustn’t be given an inch.
Well, that’s enough messing around! Now, it’s time to play with the big 
boys! Remember, don’t let appearances fool you. Julith might look frailer 
than Grampy, but she hits hard, and especially likes to Lock in her opponent 
so he can’t get away. Try to weaken her without getting too close, and make 
sure she doesn’t get you in a Lock!
w here’s a fight I’d like to see. Two creatures at the top of their game
ng it out to defend their beliefs! Grampy is solid, but he has a weak point.
di
h i i
Range: The opponent must be 
2 or 3 cells away.
He’s 
back
and
now
attlin
H ’
Ah, 
ba
big 
iler 
ent 
ake 
K.O. the opposing Krosmaster.
Place the rule book between the two players. 
You will need 2 bags, 2 stalls, 2 figures (Julith 
and Grampy), dice, and Injury markers.
corresponding cells. Keep the dice and Injury 
Place Julith and Grampy on their starting 
cells.
Julith plays first because she has a higher 
Initiative score (
t be
) than Grampy (
a h
*5$03< 3URWHFWRU
Armor. Dodge.
2241-CAR-ANG 
 «Breath» area of effect. Inﬂ icts +1 
Critical. Lock.
2240-CAR-ANG 
MY VERY FIRST SPELL
- Tutorial 2 -

SUMMONING: A CALLING
- Tutorial 3 -
In this third part, you’re going to master new aspects of the game! The battle 
between Julith and Grampy isn’t over yet, and they’re discovering new skills. 
You will learn how to summon Fleeflee and use him with Grampy.
Oh my! Julith isn’t about to be outdone, though. She’s going to reveal the true 
power of her Hupperkap!
SUMMONING SPELLS
A summoning spell allows you to bring a creature ally into the game, called a 
“Summons”, which you will control and who will help you fight your opponent.
Number of Summoned Creatures
If a Summons is eliminated, you can summon it again as long as the in-game 
limit has not been reached. Grampy can only have 1 Fleeflee in the game at a 
time, and no more.
MOB TOKENS
In many ways, Mob tokens are similar to Krosmasters: They have MP, HP, AP, 
and an attack spell. They move and cast their spells under the same conditions 
(range, Line of Sight, AP cost, damage). When they suffer damage, you place 
Injury markers directly on the Mob token.
A Mob token occupies a cell, almost like a figure. This means you can’t move 
through it, but it doesn’t block Line of Sight.
Fleeflee is represented on the board by his Mob token.
Game Order
Fleeflee must play after Grampy has finished his turn. When a Krosmaster has 
several Summons under their control, you play them one at a time in any order 
of your choice, after the Krosmaster has played their turn.
THE FLEEFLEE TOKEN
 
Well, you’re going to have to play this carefully. Thanks to Fleeflee, you can try to slow Julith down 
and make her run after you for nothing. If you make a good job of it, you should be able to 
escape unharmed. Don’t forget that she has an Area of Effect attack. It would be a shame if 
she manages to hit both you and Fleeflee in the same attack, so pay attention when you move!
You start off in a dead end. He’s surely going to try to trap you inside with Fleeflee, 
but there’s no need to panic! You can easily take out the Summons using Hupperkap. 
Don’t forget that you can hit it even if it hides behind a stall, but that’s a lot more 
difficult for him!
ADDITIONAL SPELL EFFECTS
The text below the spell name describes the spell’s additional effects.
Hupperkap and Pot of Glue have quite different additional effects:
AREA OF EFFECT
Some spells, such as Hupperkap, affect several cells. In this case, anyone inside 
the Area of Effect is hit by the attack. The attacker only performs one Critical Hit 
Roll for all targets, but each target performs a separate Armor Roll.
Also, the Area of Effect is not hindered by obstacles. This means Julith can use 
her Breath Area to attack through a stall by choosing it as her primary target, 
for example.
Breath Area of Effect
The Breath Area of Effect can be cast in 4 different
directions. Here is one of those 4:
K.O. the opposing Krosmaster.
Place the rulebook between the two players. 
You will need 4 bags, 4 stalls, 2 figures (Julith 
and Grampy), 1 Mob token (Fleeflee), some 
dice, an MP marker, and Injury markers.
corresponding cells. Keep the dice and Injury 
Place the Mob token in front of the player 
playing Grampy.
Place Julith and Grampy on their starting 
cells.
Julith plays first because she has a higher 
Initiative score (
t be
) than Grampy (
a h
Don’t forget that Krosmasters block Line of 
Sight, but Summons don’t.
Swap starting positions and see how 
important placement is from the beginning 
of the game.
Try starting with Grampy: the first player has 
an undeniable advantage.
Puts FLEEFLEE in play
Summoning of Fleeﬂee 
Range: The cell where the 
creature is summoned must be 
adjacent to the character casting 
the summoning spell.
If
li
t d
th i
Summ
Su
Sum
umm
mm
Range: The cell where the
creature is summoned must be
Each summoning spell indicates which type of creature is going to be summoned. In Grampy’s case, it is a 
Fleeflee token, but there are many Krosmaster heroes and plenty of other Summons to be discovered.
The number in brackets indicates how many of this type of creature 
can be present in the Arena at the same time: Grampy can only 
control 1 Fleeflee, but other Krosmasters may be able to control several 
Summons.
Action Points Cost: Summoning 
Fleeflee costs 2 AP.
This spell does 
not inflict da-
mage, because 
it’s not an 
attack spell.
A O
Additional Effect: When Julith attacks with her Hupper-
kap, it has an “Area of Effect” that hits several cells. The 
primary target of this attack is the cell where she decides 
to launch her attack (adjacent to Julith). If Grampy or 
Fleeflee is in the primary target cell, the damage of her 
spell is increased: the attack inflicts +1 Air damage, for a 
total of 2 damage to the primary target, and 1 damage 
to any other targets.
Additional Effect: When Fleeflee attacks with its Pot of 
Glue, it places a -1 MP marker on its target. When a 
character begins their turn with a -1 MP marker on 
their card, their MP is reduced by 1 point for this turn, 
and then the token is removed. If Julith is hit by 
Fleeflee’s attack, on the following turn, she can only 
use 2 MP.
-1
Pot of Glue
 «Breath» area of effect. Inﬂicts +1 
 to 
the primary target.
Action Points: Fleeflee has 5 AP 
to spend each turn.
Health Points: Fleeflee has 2 
HP, so it dies when it receives 
its second Injury.
Spell Bar: Fleeflee can attack an 
adjacent character with its Pot 
of Glue. This spell costs 4 AP (so 
it can be cast once per turn) and 
does not inflict any damage. You 
don’t perform a Critical Hit roll 
when using this attack! Pot of 
Glue does, however, have a special 
effect, which will be explained a 
little further down.
Movement Points: Fleeflee 
has 3 MP, so it can move a 
maximum of 3 cells per turn.
maximum of 3 cells per turn.
Loot 1: If Julith kills Fleeflee, she earns 1 Kama. Why? Patience. Good things 
come to those who fight.
Itty-Bitty: Fleeflee is so small that it can’t Lock or be Locked. The rules of 
Locking don’t apply here.
 
 Position of Julith. 
 
 Main Target. 
 
 Additional Targets.
Breath Area of 
Effect
ff i
’
id
i h l
Y
J
D
Well, y
and 
esca
she m
eefle
rkap
mor
flee,
p.
re
Armor. Dodge.
2241-CAR-ANG 
*5$03< 3URWHFWHXU
3URWHFWHXU
3URWHFWHXU
Puts FLEEFLEE in play.
Critical. Lock.
2240-CAR-ANG 
( )
( )
 «Breath» area of effect. Inﬂ icts +1 

K.O. one of the opposing Krosmasters.
Place the rule book between the two players. 
You will need 2 bags, 2 stalls, 4 figures (Julith, 
Marline, Khan, and Grampy), 1 Mob token 
(Fleeflee), dice, MP markers, AP markers, 
and Injury markers.
corresponding cells. Keep the dice and 
Take your team’s character cards (and 
Fleeflee with Grampy) and place them in 
front of you with the character that has 
the highest Initiative on the left and the 
one with the lowest Initiative on the right. 
In case of a tie, you can choose the order 
yourself, but you have to stick to it for the 
rest of the game.
Place the Krosmasters on their starting cells.
Julith’s team plays first because its total 
Initiative is the highest:
for Julith’s team
for Grampy’s team
Try changing the order of Grampy and Khan 
at the beginning. You’ll notice the interaction 
between them also changes.
Try switching teams for Grampy and Julith. 
That will make a change for your next match!
STRENGTH IN NUMBERS
- Tutorial 4 -
Now that you’ve mastered playing with Julith and Grampy, it’s time to find out what 
it’s like to fight in a team with two new Krosmasters:
Khan Karkass, an international Gobbowl star; and
Marline, an Osamodas who dreams of being a Gobbowl star.
On this occasion, Grampy and Julith will finally unleash their full might!
KHAN KARKASS’ SPELLS AND POWERS
Lock
Khan Karkass rolls 1 additional die when he performs a Lock Roll.
The damage dealt by an Earth spell 
 against this character is automatically reduced 
by 1 point.
MARLINE’S SPELLS AND POWERS
Farmer
This Power will be explained to you on page 27. Don’t worry about it for the moment.
GRAMPY AND JULITH’S NEW SKILLS
Important: When a spell’s additional effect moves a character, the Lock and Dodge 
rules are not applied!
Crafter
This Power will be explained to you on page 27. Don’t worry about it for the moment.
Untouchable
The effects of other characters that should place AP, MP, or Range markers on Julith, or 
that would move her, don’t have any effect on her.
TEAMS
As you’re now managing two figures, you will play all your characters during your turn, 
then your opponent will play theirs, and so on, until one player has won the game.
INITIATIVE 
When you’re controlling multiple Krosmasters, they play one after the other on your 
turn, always in the same order. This game order is determined by their Initiative: Your 
character with the highest Initiative score will play first each turn, the one with the 
lowest score will play last. In the event of a draw, you decide at the start of the game 
which one is going to play first.
MULTIPLE LOCKING
When a character wants to leave a cell adjacent to 2 enemy characters, they can both 
try to Lock! Each opposing character makes a Lock Roll, and the moving character 
makes a single Dodge roll against them. Once all the Rolls have been made, and any 
AP and MP have been lost (or not!), then the character that’s leaving the close combat 
can move, if they have any MP left.
Ah, now that’s starting to look more like a real Arena! It’s still a bit on the small side, but it’s not too bad 
given your ability to move around. Don’t forget that you can also cast spells on your allies. In fact, I have a 
great little tip for you: Grampy can switch positions with Khan. Thanks to the latter’s resistance, there’s a 
good chance he won’t get injured and it will help him position himself well.
Oof! It’s starting to get a bit too crowded with four Krosmasters in this little Arena! Thanks to Julith’s new 
power, you no longer have to worry about getting slowed down by that dastardly Fleeflee. This might help 
you against Grampy, but you should also keep an eye on Khan’s resistance, which may cause problems for 
Marline. Since Marline is more fragile, remember to protect him so you won’t lose.
4 2
tent Encouragement
Nothing Less Than Fan
Notoththihining Les
ess
ss Th
Tha
han Fa
Fan
antastic
antntatas
aststiticic
Nothing Less Than Fantas-
tic inflicts 2 damage
This spell doesn’t have any additional effects, but it really knocks the wind out of its target’s 
sails! Two damage, without conditions.
Shame
Attracts 1 means that the character attacked by Enticement is immediately moved one cell 
closer to Marline. If an obstacle prevents the character from moving, it stays where it is and 
damage is inflicted as normal.
En
Entntiticice
cem
eme
men
entnt
Range: The enemy must be at a 
distance of 1, 2, 3, or 4 cells. The 
little arrow indicates that the 
enemy must be in the same row 
of cells as Marline.
Enticement inflicts 
Nunc
Nu
Nun
nc
1 - 
d K
inflicts 1 damage
ff
Range: The target must be 1, 2, or 
3 cells away. The little arrow indi-
cates that the enemy must be in 
the same row of cells as Grampy.
When Grampy casts this spell, he takes the place of the character he is attacking, whether it’s a figure or a Mob token. 
The attacked character is relocated to the cell that used to be occupied by Grampy. This position swap always takes place, 
regardless of whether or not damage is inflicted or even if he K.O.’s the character he attacks with Nunchacoup.
 to the targeted character.
Ga
Gah
ahf
hfefeleldld
Gahfeld inflicts 
Range: The enemy must be 2 or 3 
cells away.
Steals health: When Grampy attacks with this spell, remove as many Injury markers from Grampy 
as he inflicts on the target.
-2 AP to the targeted character: When Grampy attacks with this spell, place 2 -1 AP markers on 
the target if it’s a character. Mob tokens and Krosmasters are characters.
It’s not easy being the sister of a great hero, and Bakara 
knows it better than anyone. She’s always felt pressured to 
become a Huppermage - one of the best, even! Luckily for 
her, blowing up dummies with balls of energy is a great stress 
Steals health
Puts 
Custom-tailored armor
haracter.
haracter
N
Switches position with the targeted Krosmaster
(1)
(1(1)1)
Custom
Who would have believed that beneath his inoffensive ret
golden arm
Push Back 2. +1
Dang Am I Beautiful
All the women throw themselves at Khan Karkass’s feet the 
moment he ﬂ exes his impressive biceps. He’s handsome, he’s 
tan, he’s muscled, and he’s oiled up. His perfect smile blinds 
the public even on sunny days, and legends say his hair is so 
beautiful that no stylist will dare touch it. Also, he’s not bad at 
Gobbowl, if those kinds of details interest you.
Lock. Resistance 
2640-CAR-ANG 
01/02/2016 09
It’s not easy being the sister of a great hero, an
knows it better than anyone. She’s always felt pre
become a Huppermage - one of the best, even! L
her, blowing up dummies with balls of energy is a gr
Hu
Hup
upp
ppe
per
erK
rKut
Retreat
R t
t 1. -1
t t
t d K
Farmer.
Steals 1
Ready to Receive! 
Some are simply not born to be Gobbowlers, and others... well, 
they’re worse. But when you’re motivated to get on the ﬁ eld, 
even if you’re built like a twig, have no pain tolerance, and 
couldn’t hit the broad side of a Minotoror with a Gobbowl Ball? 
Surely it won’t affect the ﬁ nal score... 
 Osamodas - Gobbowler - Bonta
01/02/2016 09
JULITH moves to the targeted free cell.
touchable
ll
No damage: It’s not an 
No da
de
Julith can only cast this spell once per turn (blue background).
Julith can only cast this spell once 
Range: Julith can cast her spell 
from a distance of 1 to 2 cells, 
ignoring Line of Sight.
When Julith casts this spell, she is moved to the targeted cell, if it is unoccupied. The rules of 
locking do not apply for this move.
Steals 1
hame
ha
ham
ame
me
Range: The enemy must be at 
a distance of 1 or 2 cells.
No Shame inflicts 
Steals 1 AP indicates that you have to place a -1 AP marker on the target and an equal number 
of +1 AP markers on the caster. AP markers work just like MP markers, but they affect the AP 
characteristic.
No Sh
No Sh
Sh
Range: The enemy must be at
Cost in A
This spell name’s purple background 
means that it can’t be used several times 
on the same target during the same turn.
Y
f
J
’s new
t hel
ems f
for 
Ah, n
given
great
ood ch
go
Pushes back . 
ck
No damage: It’s not an 
Pushes Back 2 means that the character attacked by Potent Encouragement is immediately pushed 
two cells away from Khan Karkass. If an obstacle prevents the character from moving 2 cells, they 
move as far back as possible. Also, this spell adds a +1 MP marker to its target, which will give them 1 
MP more than usual on their next turn. A +1 MP marker cancels out a -1 MP marker, and vice versa. 
Generally speaking, it’s better to offer your teammates some encouragement...
No dam
at
Pushes Back 2 means that the character
k
Range: The target must be 
Pot
nt
nt
)
Range: The target must be 
Khan Karkass can only cast this spell once per turn (blue background).

OUT WITH THE OLD
- Tutorial 5 -
Julith, Grampy, and Marline are going to take a bit of a break. Two new Krosmasters, 
and one that you already know well, are dying to prove themselves in the Arena:
- Bakara, a versatile Huppermage, who can hit from very far away as well as hold 
her own in close combat; and
- Joris, a young hero who is, as they say, small but strong.
And where there are new Krosmasters, new spells and powers are never far 
behind! Read each of their descriptions below and you will be ready to let it rip!
BAKARA’S SPELLS AND POWERS
Dodge
When Bakara performs a Dodge Roll, she rolls 1 additional die.
Intelligence (
)
When Bakara casts a Fire elemental attack, she rolls 1 additional die for the 
Critical Hit Roll. When Bakara is the target of a Fire-type attack, she rolls 1 
additional die during her Armor Roll. This effect can be combined with Armor 
and Critical.
JORIS’S SPELLS AND POWERS
Dodge 
When Joris performs a Dodge roll, he rolls 1 additional die.
LINE OF SIGHT AND LONG RANGE
As we have already seen, to cast a spell with a 
character, the target has to be in range of the spell 
AND there has to be a clear Line of Sight from the 
center of the cell that they occupy to the center of 
the cell where the target is standing. This line can’t 
cut through a cell blocking the Line of Sight, such as a 
character or a stall.
 : Clear Line of Sight.
 : No Line of Sight.
K.O. all the enemy Krosmasters before your own Krosmasters are K.O.’d.
Place the rulebook between the 2 players. You will need 2 bags, 4 stalls, 3 figures 
and their character cards (Bakara, Joris, Khan), dice, MP markers, and Injury 
Place a bag or a stall on each of the corresponding cells.
One player will play as a single Krosmaster (Bakara) against 2 played by the 
other player. This is where you have to pay attention to your characters’ levels . 
Since Bakara is Level 4, and Joris and Khan are each Level 2, the two teams have 
the same total level. To make sure the two teams are balanced, the total levels 
of the characters must be the same for each team, regardless of the number of 
figures per team.
When you have several characters, place the card with the highest Initiative on 
the left and the one with the lowest Initiative on the right.
Place the Krosmasters on their starting cells. Joris and Khan’s team plays first 
because its total Initiative is higher than Bakara’s Initiative:
 for the duo
 for Bakara
Start Joris one cell north and use Khan to push him. You will notice that the 
synergy between the two characters can reshape the game.
Replace Bakara with another Level 4 character from the box. You will see that 
the match will play out differently, and some characters are easier to play than 
others.
Guys, you’re going to have to make contact as quickly as possible. It’s not a given, though. Our starting position is going to hold us back, but luckily 
we have the Initiative. It’s going to take cunning, and you’ll need to use the stalls to get close to the young lady as quickly as possible. If you manage 
to catch her, Joris can soon K.O. her.
Bakara, I have some good news and some bad news for you. The good news is that you’re on the winning team! Bwaaahaha… The bad news is that 
you don’t have much of a team to play with. Your range is really going to be put to the test, but, most importantly, you’re going to have to K.O. the 
other two to win this game. My advice is to pick one and concentrate on them in the beginning. Then try to take care of the second one. Once you’re 
dueling, you won’t have much to worry about. Don’t let little Joris back you into a corner!
Range: The enemy must be 1 
or 2 cells away.
BlBlolow
own
wn BlBlolow
ow
Pushes back . 
 +3 
 if the target 
was not pushed.
con
co
con
Drac
Dr
Dra
rac
ac
+3
if the target
if th t
Even with Critical, you can only roll 1 die for a 
Critical Hit when the spell is neutral (this also 
applies to Punch)
Cost in Action 
Points (AP)
Joris can only cast this spell once per 
turn (blue background).
was no
Range: The enemy must be adjacent.
Pushes back 2: This means that the character attacked by Draconian Crisis is immediately pushed 
two cells away from Joris. If an obstacle is preventing the character from moving 2 cells, they 
move as many cells as possible until they land on the cell adjacent to the obstacle (note that 
crates are not obstacles).
If the target can’t be moved at all, the attack deals 4 damage (1+3). That’s what they mean by 
small but strong!
go
gor
oririaia
k
Range: The enemy must be at a 
distance of 3 to 7 cells. Therefore, 
this spell can’t be used against 
an enemy on an adjacent cell or 
within 2 cells.
odge
Retreat 1: When she casts the Hupperkut spell, move Bakara 1 cell in the opposite direction from 
the attack’s target. If an obstacle is blocking her path, Bakara does not retreat. Notice that Bakara 
benefits from the 1 cell movement thanks to the Retreat 1 effect even if she aims at an empty cell, 
as the “to the targeted Krosmaster” rule only affects the placement of the -1 MP!
-1 MP to the targeted Krosmaster: Place a -1 MP marker on the spell’s target, if it’s a Krosmaster.
pp
Bakar
ou do
her two
, you w
B
yo
oth
dueling
Guys
we hav
catch
to c
1 - 8
the

UNFINISHED SYMPATHY
- Tutorial 6 -
Julith, Grampy, Joris, Marline, Khan, Bakara… if I’m not mistaken, there are two 
more fighters left to meet in this box. Without further ado, here they are:
Jahash, a Huppermage who’ll do whatever it takes to help his nearest and dearest; 
and Lilotte, Joris’ friend. She’ll follow him anywhere without having to be asked!
LILOTTE’S SPELLS
JAHASH’S SPELLS AND POWERS
K.O. all the enemies!
Place the rulebook between the two players. You will need 4 crates, 4 bags, 
4 stalls, 4 figures and their character cards (Bakara, Joris, Khan, Lilotte), dice, 
Range markers, MP markers, and Injury markers.
Place a bag, a stall, or a crate on each of the corresponding cells.
Place your character cards in front of you, with the highest Initiative character 
on the left and the lowest Initiative character on the right.
Place the Krosmasters on their starting cells. Bakara & Lilotte’s team plays first.
From my point of view, this will be a walk in the park. We have the biggest attacks, we’re going to make Bow Meow food out of them. We even have 
an ultimate spell! If we use it at the right time, it can really change the tide of battle and lead us to victory. So, the strategy is simple: We rush them 
and try to get rid of the healer first. Simple and efficient. I love it when a plan comes together!
Ha, so this is where we’ve ended up! Girls against boys! These guys are unbelievable! I thought Jahash was better than that. Oh well… we’ll have to 
show them once again that we’re the best. They’re surely going to try to attack the smallest one, so Bakara will need to protect her while Lilotte heals 
her injuries. Although ideally, we’ll never let them get that close!
pp
un
nch
ch
Pierces Armor: This spell’s target rolls 1 less die when rolling for Armor. 
If it should only cast 1 die, it casts 0 instead.
Ha, so 
how th
juries.
sh
her inj
From 
n ultim
try to
an
and t
ntao
Moves 3 closer to targeted Krosmaster: As opposed to Lilotte, Jahash is only moved by this 
attract effect if his target is a Krosmaster. In exchange, he is moved 3 cells!
TiTititatan
aninicic Lea
eap
4 -
4 1
Range: Titanic Leap is a line at-
tack spell. The targeted cell must 
be in the same row as Jahash, 
and 1 to 4 cells away.
Moves 2 closer.
Licks
Moves 2 closer: When she casts her Canine Approach spell, move Lilotte two cells towards 
the target of the attack. If she is blocked by an obstacle, Lilotte is moved until she is adjacent 
to that obstacle.
1 - 
Range: Canine Approach is a 
line attack spell. The targeted 
cell must be in the same row as 
Lilotte, and 1 to 3 cells away.
Cost in Action 
Points (AP)
Cost in Movement 
Points (MP)
0 - 1
Range: Lilotte can cast this 
spell on herself (the range of 0 
corresponds to the cell on which 
she is standing) or on a charac-
ter 1 cell away (adjacent).
This spell heals 
2 Injuries
30 Licks is a healing spell. It inflicts no damage, but instead removes two Injury markers from 
the spell’s target! Like an attack spell, Lilotte performs a Critical Hit Roll to try to heal one 
additional Injury, for a maximum of 3 Injury markers removed. The target of 30 Licks never 
rolls for Armor.
Additionally, 30 Licks puts a +1 
 on the target, which increases the target’s variable spell 
ranges on its next turn.
This 
30 Licick
cks
ks
Lilotte can only cast this spell once 
per turn (blue background).
No damage, it’s not an 
With this ultimate spell, Jahash removes 2 Injuries from all wounded characters (even oppo-
nents), but he does not heal himself, as the text specifies “all other characters”. This effect 
does not require rolling any dice, and the healing effect can’t be improved with a Critical Hit.
No da
Bo
Bon
ontatao
ao
Jahash can only cast this spell once per game (red background).
Wi h hi
l i
ll J h
Jahash can only cast this spell once
Range: This spell doesn’t have a 
max. or min. range. It only affects 
the character who is casting it.
Critical: Jahash rolls 1 additional die for his Critical Hit Rolls.
MODIFYING RANGE
Spells with a red range icon can never change their range. However, spells with 
a green range icon can increase their maximum range. They are called “variable 
range spells”.
There are two main ways to modify a spell’s maximum range:
- Crates
Crates are not obstacles: characters can move onto them from an adjacent cell 
by spending 1 MP as if the cell doesn’t contain a crate. Place the figure on the 
crate.
Crates don’t block Line of Sight, like bags or most Summons.
The maximum range of variable range spells for a character on a crate is 
increased by 1 cell.
- Range Markers
At the start of their turn, a character with Range markers on it removes them 
from their card and applies the equivalent modifications to their variable range 
spells for that entire turn.
The maximum range of a spell can’t be reduced below its minimum range.
There is no top limit to maximum spell range.
The minimum range can never be changed.
Cannot Increase 
(red range)
Does Not Change 
(close combat spell)
2 - 4

S -
- Tutorials 7 -
So, now you’re ready to fight a merciless battle in a real Arena. Each player 
will lead a team of 4 Krosmasters, for better or worse. In this last tutorial, you 
will learn the basics of the game in the big Arena: the Gallons of Glory and the 
Kama tokens.
THE GALLONS OF GLORY 
The Gallons of Glory represent your honor, your courage, and your bravery in the 
eyes of the Outerworld Demons. They are represented by the GG tokens. Each 
player begins with 6 GG. If a player ever has no GG, they lose the game!
How do you get more GG? Steal them from your opponent! There are several 
ways to win these famous GG... or to lose them:
K.O. an Enemy
When you K.O. an enemy Krosmaster, remove that figure from the Arena along 
with any tokens they may have brought into play. Take as many GG as the level 
of the K.O.’d Krosmaster from your opponent.
Buy them using Kamas
By paying 12 Kamas to the reserve, you can buy a GG: after paying, take 1 GG 
from your opponent (not the reserve). Only a Krosmaster on a Demon cell can 
buy GG.
At the start of the game, 1 GG token is placed beside the Arena. This is the “Wild 
GG”. The first time either player gains one or more GG, regardless of the way in 
which you win them, you must take the Wild GG first. Then, take any others due 
to you from your opponent. For example, your Julith K.O.’s her enemy, Jahash, 
while the Wild GG is still on the table. You take the Wild GG and 3 more GG from 
your opponent.
At the beginning of your turn, you must check if The Tension is Rising before 
you play your characters, one by one, in the order of your Timeline (descending 
Initiative).
The Tension is Rising!
At the beginning of your turn, before activating your first Krosmaster, roll 2 dice. 
If the result is not to your liking, you can choose to ignore it and roll 1 die. 
If you do not reroll AND the same symbol is showing on both dice (for example, 
 or 2
), the Demons of the Hours and Minutes apply some pressure: You 
and your opponent each lose 1 GG marker, which you put back in the game box.
Timelines
Your “Timeline” determines the order in which your team’s characters will play 
during your turn. When you play your Krosmasters, you activate them one at a 
time, starting with the one that has the highest Initiative score, then proceeding 
to the next highest Initiative, and so on.
The order in which your characters play is visually represented in your Timeline, 
by placing your character cards in a row from left to right, in descending order of 
Initiative. So, when it’s your turn, you’ll play the character whose card is furthest 
to the left, then the one to the right of it, and so on.
CHARACTER TURN
When it’s their turn, all characters can spend MP and AP to move and cast spells. 
But, in the Arena, there are two special ways a Krosmaster can spend their AP: 
collecting Kamas and making purchases.
Collect a Kama Token
For 1 AP, a Krosmaster can collect 1 Kama token from their cell. Kamas collected 
in this way are kept nearby, alongside your GG tokens. They are part of your 
stock, like all of your equipment. Some cells contain 2 Kama tokens. You will 
have to pick them up one at a time, at a cost of 1 AP for each Kama collected.
Remember that only a Krosmaster can perform this action: Summons like 
Fleeflee can’t pick up Kama tokens.
Buy a GG
For 1 AP, a Krosmaster on a Demon cell can buy 1 GG: Pay 12 Kamas to the 
reserve from your stock, and take 1 GG from your opponent. If the Wild GG is still 
in play, you must buy this GG first.
A team can only buy 1 GG per turn.
Kama tokens
GRANITE
JADE
SILVER
Demonic 
Rewards
MP, AP 
and Range
Player 1:
BONTA TEAM
Be the only player to own any Gallons of Glory.
Place 8 bags, 8 stalls, and 4 crates on the corresponding cells.
Place 1 Kama token on each of the Kama cells and on each Demon cell: if a 
Kama cell shows 2 Kamas, place 2 tokens there.
Place the remaining Kama, Injury, MP, AP, and Range markers and the dice on 
the side of the field.
Each player takes 6 Gallons of Glory. Place 1 GG beside the Arena between the 
two players: This is the Wild GG.
Choose your team and create your Timeline at the edge of the Arena:
Player 1, Bonta Team: 
 
- Bakara, Khan Karkass, Grampy, Lilotte 
 
Player 2, Brakmar Team: 
 
- Julith, Marline, Joris, Jahash 
 
The Bonta team goes first because the total Initiative of its characters is higher than 
the total Initiative of the characters on the Brakmar team.
Brakmar Team: 
 
Bonta Team: 
m:
The Bonta Team player places their 4 Krosmasters in the cells marked with blue 
Dragoturkey paws of their choice. Then, the Brakmar Team player does the same 
on the cells marked with red Dragoturkey paws.
The Bonta Team plays first.
Player 2:
BRAKMAR TEAM
VILLAGE, TOWN: SOLDIER TACTICS
Kama tokens
GRANITE
JADE
SILVER
Demonic
Rewards
MP,
P,
P AP
and Range
Player 1:
BONTA TEAM
Player 2:
BRAKMAR TEAM
It’s not easy being the sister of a great hero, and Bakara 
knows it better than anyone. She’s always felt pressured to 
become a Huppermage - one of the best, even! Luckily for 
her, blowing up dummies with balls of energy is a great stress 
Dodge. Intelligence (
2636-CAR-ANG 
J25I66ZDVKEXFNOHU
Push back 2. Inﬂ icts +3 
 if the target was 
2634-CAR-ANG 
Farmer.
Steals 1
Ready to Receive! 
Some are simply not born to be Gobbowlers, and others... well, 
they’re worse. But when you’re motivated to get on the ﬁ eld, 
even if you’re built like a twig, have no pain tolerance, and 
couldn’t hit the broad side of a Minotoror with a Gobbowl Ball? 
Surely it won’t affect the ﬁ nal score... 
 Osamodas - Gobbowler - Bonta
Critical.
Achilles’ Feels!
The greatest Huppermage of all time, who fears no enemy, 
saw himself defeated by the power of love. Men are all the 
same! Invincible with their sword in their hands, but give them 
a peck on the cheek... 
2638-CAR-ANG 
Huppermage - Bonta - Boss
*5$03< 3URWHFWRU
Armor. Crafter.
Puts FLEEFLEE in play.
Custom-tailored armor
dime a dozen! 
2637-CAR-ANG 
 "Breath" Area of Effect. Inﬂ icts +1 
JULITH moves to the targeted free cell.
Critical. Unfazed.
Madame Butcher
2635-CAR-ANG 
Push Back 2. +1
Dang Am I Beautiful
All the women throw themselves at Khan Karkass’s feet the 
moment he ﬂ exes his impressive biceps. He’s handsome, he’s 
tan, he’s muscled, and he’s oiled up. His perfect smile blinds 
the public even on sunny days, and legends say his hair is so 
beautiful that no stylist will dare touch it. Also, he’s not bad at 
Gobbowl, if those kinds of details interest you.
Lock. Resistance 
2640-CAR-ANG 
Moves 2 closer.
0 - 1
Gutter Pup
Lilotte is the most adorable stray Ouginak in Bonta. At least, 
that’s what all the inhabitants think - except maybe the town’s 
militiamen, who have numerous less savory appellations for 
her. Among them: Flea bag, street mutt, stray Bow Wow, pup-
for-nothin’, and many more... 
2639-CAR-ANG 

THE BASICS
START OF THE GAME
Some concepts and definitions will prove invaluable to your understanding of 
the rules. Read this page carefully, and the rest of your reading will be easier. 
You can always come back to this page if you need to check what a term means.
To win a Krosmaster Arena game, you must be the only player to still have any 
Gallons of Glory (
) remaining. This condition is checked constantly, from the 
moment the Wild GG is no longer available. You get GG by K.O.’ing opposing 
Krosmasters, by buying them with Kamas, or from Demonic Rewards. You can 
also claim victory if you are the only one to still have Krosmasters in the game.
THE UNITS
Anyone who is part of a player’s team is a “unit”. On the board, a unit is 
represented either by a figure (for Krosmasters) or a Summons token.
When units are on the board, you can tell them apart in 3 different ways:
Allies or Enemies
All the units you bring into play on the board are your “allies”, regardless of 
whether they’re a Krosmaster from your team or a Summons you’ve summoned 
during the game. However, the units your opponent places on the board are 
“enemy” units. From your point of view, a unit is always one or the other.
Krosmaster or Summons
A unit is either a Krosmaster or a Summons. A Krosmaster is chosen when 
you are putting together your team and has a Level on their character card. A 
Summons is a unit brought into play during the game, and unlike a Krosmaster, 
it doesn’t have a Level.
Character or Mechanism
Finally, a unit is either a character or a mechanism. Any unit with an MP 
characteristic is a character. A unit that does not have an MP characteristic is a 
mechanism (bombs, for example).
When we talk about a Mob, we mean a character-type Summons, so don’t be 
surprised if you come across this term later on!
Now you know how to tell the units apart, let’s move on to the characteristics.
MP, HP AND AP
The three main characteristics of a unit are its Movement Points (
), its 
Health Points (
), and its Action Points (
). For Krosmasters, you will find 
this information on their Krosmaster card. For Summons, it will be on their 
Summons token.
) MP represent the character’s mobility in the Arena. By spending MP, a 
character can move from cell to cell. A Character gets back its total MP at the 
start of each of its turns.
) HP represent a unit’s endurance and their ability to withstand blows. Over 
the course of the game, a unit will suffer Injuries. These Injuries will add up: 
record them using Injury markers (
), which you place on the character card 
or the unit’s token. A unit can never have more Injury markers than its HP 
characteristic.
When your unit has as many Injury markers as Health Points (HP) on their card 
(or Summons token), they are “K.O.’d”: Remove the unit from the board and give 
your opponent as many GGs as the level of the K.O.’d unit. Summons don’t have 
a level, and never give GGs.
When a spell or an effect applies Injuries to a Krosmaster without specifying who 
inflicts these Injuries, those Injuries are considered to be inflicted by the unit 
on whose character card that spell or effect is written. (This specification won’t 
make any difference with the units in this box, but it could come in handy when 
playing with other Krosmasters!). 
) AP show the quantity of actions that a unit may perform each turn. Just like 
MP, a unit gets back all of its AP at the start of each of its turns.
THE CELLS
For aesthetic reasons, the cells on the board aren’t exactly square. In the rules, 
when we talk about cells, we have to imagine that they’re all perfectly square, 
forming a perfect checkerboard.
Adjacent
Cells which share a common side are known as “adjacent” cells. So, a cell is 
normally adjacent to 4 others. Those situated at the edge of the board are 
adjacent to 3 cells, and cells in the corners of the game board are adjacent to 
only 2 cells.
When you have to count cells, to determine spell range or movement for example, 
you count from one adjacent cell to the next adjacent cell, never diagonally. 
When two units are located in adjacent cells to one another, these units are said 
to be adjacent.
Obstacles, Free Cells, and Impassable Cells
An “obstacle” is something that prevents a unit from entering a cell, such as a 
stand. A cell that does not contain any obstacle is known as a “free cell”. 
An “impassable cell” is a cell that contains an obstacle: it’s impossible to move 
into it.
GALLONS OF GLORY (GG)
When you win GG, you take them from your opponent! Unless the Wild GG is still 
in play, in which case you take this GG first, then take the rest of the GG you are 
owed from your opponent.
KAMAS
Each player has their own stock of Kamas, which are shared by all the Krosmasters 
on their team. Any Kamas they collect go into this stock, and they spend Kamas 
from here. Kamas are indestructible.
ROLLING THE DICE
In Krosmaster Arena, when you roll a die, the following rule applies to each die 
rolled:
, leave it as it is.
, turn the die to the 
 face, your choice.
, turn the die to the 
 face, your choice.
A die roll is finalized once each die shows 
RULES CONFLICTS
If one rule or ability says something is “possible” and another rule or ability says 
that it isn’t, the rule which forbids the action takes precedence over the one 
which permits it.
>>> I’ve played the tutorials!
Well done! You have completed the tutorials, so now you have mastered 
nearly all aspects of the game. Read the following rules, in particular those on 
Demonic Rewards, and you will be able to jump straight into many battles with 
these rules and the contents of this game box.
>>> Tutorials are for noobs!
You have already played figure-based board games? For veterans like you, a 
quick read through these rules will allow you to dive into the Arena without 
further ado.
CHOICE OF CHARACTERS
Each player chooses a team whose total Krosmaster Level is equal to 12, the 
Level being shown in the top-right of the Krosmaster card, written in the 
 
symbol. To split up the characters, the players should agree on one of the 
following methods:
Use the Recommended Teams
For your first few games, you can try these teams:
Julith, Marline, Joris, and Johash
Bakara, Khan Karkass, Grampy, and Lilotte
By Choice
The two players agree on which characters they want to play. The two teams 
must have a total of 12 Levels each.
By drafting
Make a pile with the eight Krosmaster cards face down, and turn the first 2 
cards face up.
One player (chosen randomly) chooses 1 card from the 2 that are face up. The 
second player takes the remaining card.
The players than repeat the same procedure, alternating which player gets to 
choose a card, until there are no cards left in the deck or...
Once one of the players reaches 12 Krosmaster levels, the other player takes all 
the remaining Krosmaster cards left in the deck. Both players will have 12 Levels 
on their teams.
Remember: You cannot take a card if it will bring your total number of levels 
higher than 12!
First Player
Each player adds up the Initiative scores 
 of their Krosmasters. The player 
whose team has the highest total will be the first to play. If it’s a draw, the team 
with the single character with the highest Initiative score goes first.
Choice and Direction of the Board
The first player chooses the combat Arena: they set up the game board on the 
side they want (Bonta I or Bonta II). The other player chooses one of the four 
sides of the board as their own, and the first player sits opposite them.
Timeline
Each player creates their Timeline by arranging their Krosmaster cards on their 
side of the game board from left to right in descending order of Initiative. Take 
your team’s Krosmaster figures and place them on their cards for the moment.
SCENERY
Place the scenery as shown on the game board:
Kama Tokens
Place Kama tokens on each Kama Cell equal to the number of Kama icons you see 
on each cell. Also place 1 Kama token on each Demon cell.
The remaining Kama tokens are placed next to the Arena. They make up the “reserve”.
Demonic Reward Tokens
Divide the Demonic Reward tokens face-down by type and shuffle each type 
separately: 
 GRANITE, 
 JADE and 
 SILVER.
Set up six Demonic Reward piles, leaving them face down:
3 piles with Granite rewards
2 piles with Jade rewards
1 pile with Silver rewards
They will be revealed over the course of the game as follows:
On their first turn, the second player will reveal 1 Demonic Reward of 
each type, and place them face up next to the matching pile (see page 19).
On their second turn, the first player will do the same with 1 new Granite 
and 1 new Jade reward.
Finally, on their second turn, the second player will reveal a final Demonic 
Reward from the Granite pile that has not yet been revealed.
At this stage, there will be a Demonic Reward revealed next to each pile.
Other Tokens and Dice
Place the Injury markers as well as the +1/-1 AP 
 
, +1/-1 MP 
 
, and 
+1/-1 Range markers 
 
 by the side of the board. Place 1 GG token in view: 
that’s the Wild GG. Leave the dice within arm’s reach of both players.
Starting GG
Each player takes 6 GG tokens that they keep close to their Krosmaster cards.
Placement
The first player positions their figures in the Arena, on the starting cells in the first 
two rows on their side of the board. These are the starting cells for their team.
Their opponent does the same on their starting cells, on the other side of the 
board.
Examples of Starting Cells:
There, now you’re ready to start fighting! The first player can start their game turn. 
Page 19 will show you what the Krosmaster Arena may look like before you start 
playing.
STALL
CRATE
BAG
BA
*5$03<
*5$03<
*5$03<3URWHFWRU
 "Breath" Area of Effect. Inﬂ icts +1 
2635-CAR-ANG 
Nothing Less Than Fantastic 4 2
2639-CAR-ANG 
eath
eath" Area of Effect
Area of Effect. Inﬂ icts 
Inﬂicts +1
to th
to th1
cter.
cter
3 14
STALL
RATE
AG

GAME TURNS
MP AND AP
Once the board is set up, the first player can start their first game turn. When 
they have finished their turn, it’s up to their opponent to play. Then they 
alternate game turns until one player is victorious. The player who is taking 
their turn is called the “active player”. A game turn is broken down as follows:
PART 1: TENSION & INSPIRATION
The Demons of the Hours and Minutes take a perverse pleasure in twisting the 
fates of the Krosmasters. But they are fickle, and the gifts they offer are random. 
You begin each turn by making a Tension Roll, which allows you to give your 
Krosmasters powers by inspiring them. If the powers the Demons offer don’t 
interest you, don’t worry! You can try your luck again or even take Kamas instead 
of powers. 
Tension Roll and Reroll
The active player rolls 2 dice. If the dice are not what you hoped for, you can 
ignore these 2 dice and try your luck again by throwing just 1 die. If you do reroll, 
you can only use the 1 rerolled die for inspiration or refund.
If you do not reroll, and the two dice show the same face, the Tension Rises: each 
player takes one of their GG tokens and puts it back in the game box!
The first player does not roll for Tension on the first turn.
Inspiration
Each tension die you rolled can be placed on a Krosmaster card to give them 
a power until your next turn. You can give the dice to different Krosmasters or 
place both dice on the same card. 
Each die gives a power to that Krosmaster, depending on which side is facing 
up:p
: The character gains Critical Hit for this turn.
: The character gains Armor for this turn.
: The character gains Lock for this turn.
: The character gains Dodge for this turn.
Refund!
You don’t have to place both dice. You can place only 1 die or even none at all, 
regardless of whether or not you rerolled. The dice you don’t place are exchanged 
for Kamas from the supply. If you sell 1 die, the Demons will give you 1 Kama for 
it. If you choose to sell 2 dice, the Demons will give you 3 Kamas.
PART 2: UNIT TURNS
After your Tension Roll, you play your units one at a time in the order of your 
Timeline, from left to right. Once your first unit’s turn is over, you move on to the 
following unit in your Timeline, and so on, until all your units have had a turn. 
When it’s a unit’s turn, they are known as the “active unit”. 
A unit’s turn is split into three phases:
>2.1 PRELIMINARY PHASE
During the Preliminary Phase, the unit is preparing to act. Some game effects 
are applied or disappear. Follow these steps in order:
Triggered Effects
Some game effects are put in place or come to an end at the start of the unit’s 
turn, such as a Bomb Explosion cast with a Rogue Bag (Demonic Reward) on the 
previous turn. These are called “triggered effects”, and now it’s time for them to 
complete their role. If several effects are triggered at the same time, the active 
player chooses the order in which they will happen, one at a time.
Buff Suppression
Remove all face-up Buff tokens from the active unit.
Determine MP, AP, and Range For the Turn
Next, determine how many AP and MP the unit will be able to spend this turn: 
Look at the unit’s characteristics, then modify these values based on the unit’s 
Equipment and any markers in place. A unit that has AP, MP, or Range markers 
has those characteristics modified for the rest of its turn. These markers are 
then discarded.
Once the Activation Phase has begun, only “immediate” AP or MP gains and the 
activation or lose of Equipment can change the unit’s AP, MP, or Range for the 
rest of the turn.
>2.2 ACTIVATION PHASE
During this phase, your unit will move and take actions by spending MP and AP.
On its turn, the active unit can spend the MP and AP that was determined 
during the Preliminary Phase. When the unit no longer can or wants to spend 
MP or AP, its Activation Phase is over. Any MP or AP not spent are lost. You can’t 
save them to be carried over to another turn. A unit is never under any obligation 
to spend all of its MP or AP, or even to spend any at all.
>2.3 END OF ACTIVATION PHASE
This short phase brings the unit’s turn to an end.
Triggered Effects
Some game effects are brought into play or stopped at the end of a unit’s turn. 
These are also triggered effects. Just like during the Preliminary Phase, if several 
effects are triggered at the same time, the active player chooses the order in 
which they take place, one at a time.
Next!
Repeat the 3 phases (Preliminary, Activation, and End of Activation) with the 
next unit in your Timeline. If you have already played all your units, it’s the end 
of your game turn.
PART 3: END OF THE GAME TURN
That’s it, it’s over! Now, it’s your opponent’s turn to play. They start a new turn 
and become the new active player.
Movement Points and Action Points are at the heart of the game system. 
During their Activation Phase, a unit can spend MP and AP to move and carry 
out various actions.
Each turn, each unit can spend as many MP and AP as the value determined during 
its Preliminary Phase, based on their MP and AP characteristics. You can spend MP 
and AP in any order you like, alternating as many times as you like. Each expenditure 
can be carried out several times.
MOVING 1 CELL (1 MP)
(Applies only to characters with an MP characteristic)
By spending 1 MP, the active unit can move to an adjacent free cell.
Lock
If the active unit wants to move out of a cell that is adjacent to one or more 
enemy characters, they take the risk of being Locked or Caught. 
First, select which cell you want your character to move to. Then, each adjacent 
enemy character makes a Lock Roll, which your character can try to resist with 
a Dodge Roll.
Lock Roll: Your opponent rolls 1 die (or 2 dice if this character has the Lock 
power). Each 
 counts as a success for the Lock Roll.
Dodge Roll: You roll 1 die (or 2 dice if your character has the Dodge power). Each 
 counts as a success for the Dodge Roll.
Results:
 
• Lock: If the Lock Roll has more successes than the Dodge Roll, your 
character is Locked: they immediately lose 3 MP and 3 AP.
 
• Caught: If the Lock Roll has exactly as many successes as the Dodge 
Roll, your character is only Caught: they immediately lose 1 MP and 1 AP.
If the moving unit has any MP left, they can then move as planned.
Since Summons are not as tough as Krosmasters, they can only Catch a character 
that is dodging them. If they would Lock someone, they Catch them instead.
Some spells allow you to move in a more original way. The Lock rule does not 
apply to a unit that moves thanks to a spell. It’s only when a character spends 1 
MP to move one cell that they can be Locked.
COLLECT 1 KAMA (1 AP)
By spending 1 AP, the active Krosmaster may pick up 1 Kama token from the cell 
on which they are standing. If there is more than one Kama token there, it costs 
1 AP for each Kama token you want to pick up. 
Your team has a Kama stock, which is shared by all your Krosmasters: any Kamas 
you collect are added to this stock. Only a Krosmaster can complete this action. 
A character represented by a Mob token cannot pick up Kamas.
BUY A GG (1 AP)
A Krosmaster on a Demon Cell can buy a GG by spending 1 AP and paying 12 
Kamas from your stock to the reserve. You then take 1 GG from your opponent 
(or a Wild GG if there is one still available).
You can only perform this action once per turn. If one of your Krosmasters has 
already bought a GG this turn, this action is no longer available until your next 
turn.
CASTING A SPELL (AP AND/OR MP COST DEPENDING ON THE SPELL)
The units can all cast very different spells. The majority of units know how to cast 
at least one attack spell to injure their opponents, but some units also know how to 
cast other types of spells, such as summoning spells, healing spells, or special spells. 
The MP and/or AP cost depends on the spell cast (see page 24).
BUYING A DEMONIC REWARD (1 AP)
(Only Krosmasters can peform this action.)
A Krosmaster on a Demon Cell can buy a Demonic Reward by spending 1 AP and 
paying Kama tokens from your stock to the reserve. The price of a Demonic Reward 
varies according to its type:
- A GRANITE Demonic Reward 
 costs 3 kamas
- A JADE Demonic Reward 
 costs 6 kamas
- A SILVER Demonic Reward 
 costs 9 kamas
When you buy a Reward, you can choose to take one of the visible Demonic Reward 
tokens, in which case you know what you’re buying, or you can choose one at 
random so your opponent doesn’t know which one you’ve just bought. If you buy a 
face up one, you must immediately replace it with a Demonic Reward of the same 
level from the stack.
Once you have a Demonic Reward, you must assign it to one of the Krosmasters 
on your team, the one who just bought it or another one regardless of whether or 
not they are on a Demon Cell. Place the Demonic Reward token face down on the 
chosen Krosmaster’s card. Only a Krosmaster can receive a Demonic Reward.
Whether you have chosen a face up Demonic Reward or chose one at random, the 
procedure is the same: When you allocate it to a Krosmaster, the token must be 
played face down on its card. As long as it is face down, a Demonic Reward token 
does not grant any bonuses.
Demonic Reward Limitations
Negotiate with the Demons as gently as possible! There are limitations to the 
purchase and the possession of Demonic Rewards. At most, a Krosmaster can only 
have a number of Demonic Reward tokens on their card equal to their Level, face up 
or face down, all types and ranks combined.
ACTIVATE A DEMONIC REWARD (0 AP)
A Krosmaster can unlock a Boost, Buff, or Equipment Demonic Reward at any time 
during their Activation Phase. This does not cost any AP. Turn the Demonic Reward 
token face up and apply its effect(s) immediately. You can only activate one Demonic 
Reward on each Krosmaster per turn.
A Boost is discarded after use and its token returned to the game box. 
A Buff remains face up on the active Krosmaster’ card until the start of that 
character’s next turn.
An Equipment is permanent.
PUNCH AN OPPONENT (5 AP)
Once per turn, a Krosmaster adjacent to an opponent can spend 5 AP to Punch.

Special Spells
Special spells do not inflict damage or heal injuries, so there is no Critical Hit or 
Armor Roll. Julith’s Escapade is an example of a special spell.
Summoning Spells
Summoning spells usually bring a token into play. The token must always be 
placed on a free cell.
A summoning spell is a special type of spell which is combined with one of the 
other spell types. Grampy’s “Fleeflee” is an example of a special spell which is also 
a summoning spell.
SPELL DETAILS
The Spell Name is used to identify it and often gives an indication of its effects.
Usage Limit
 The majority of spells do not have a usage limit. Their 
name is written against a black background.
 A spell with its name written on a blue background can 
only be cast once per turn.
 If the spell name is on a purple background, this spell can 
only be cast on the same target once per turn, but can be cast at different targets 
on the same turn.
 If a spell is on a red background, the unit can only cast 
that spell once per game.
Summons Control
Sometimes, there is a number in parentheses alongside a spell’s name. This is the 
Summons Control value. 
A Krosmaster can’t summon a new Mob token into play if the number of allied 
Summons of the same type in the game has already reached this limit. If there 
are fewer Summons than the number in the parentheses, you can bring another 
one into play. 
A Krosmaster can’t summon a new mechanism Summons if the number of allied 
Summons of the same type under that Krosmaster’s control has already reached 
this limit. 
In summary: For Mob tokens, you must take into account the total number of 
Summons of the other allied Krosmasters. For Mechanisms, on the other hand, 
each Krosmaster is only responsible for their own Summons!
Summoning of Fleeﬂee (1)
 This spell allows the team to have 1 Fleeflee in play.
 Places bomb (2)
 Each Krosmaster with this Spell may have 2 Bombs in 
play at a time.
SPELL COSTS 
Most of the time, you simply have to spend AP to pay the cost of casting a spell:
In addition to the AP cost, some spells also require you to spend MP or even HP if 
you want to cast them:
A few spells have an Injury cost. When this cost is paid, the unit that casts one 
of these spells places the Injuries indicated on the spell onto their card. A unit 
can never have more Injuries than they have HP. If you can’t place all the Injury 
markers required for this Spell on their card, they cannot cast the Spell:
RANGE
A spell’s range is shown by an icon. This includes the following two numbers:
The first number is the minimum range (“min range”)—the minimum 
distance, measured in cells, at which the target must be located for the spell to work. 
A 0 indicates that the character can cast the spell on themself.
The second number is the maximum range (“max range”)—the maximum 
distance, measured in cells, at which the target can be located for the spell to work. 
The maximum range of some spells can be modified, either by climbing on 
scenery (like a crate) to increase the range or by using + or – Range markers.
 
The minimum range of spells cannot be modified.
2 - 5 2 - 5
Normal Range: This Spell can target a cell between the minimum range 
and maximum range indicated. If the icon is red, the spell’s max range 
cannot be increased or reduced.
1 - 4 1 - 4
Ignores Line of Sight: The same as the normal range, except that this spell 
does not require a clear Line of Sight to be cast on the target. If the icon is 
red, the spell’s max range cannot be increased or reduced.
1 - 3 1 - 2
Line Spell: This spell can only target a cell located in the same line of cells 
(row or column) as the caster. If the icon is red, the spell’s max range cannot 
be increased or reduced.
Close Combat: This spell can only be cast on a cell adjacent to that of the caster. 
It doesn’t have a max or min range.
Personal: This spell can only be cast on the caster themself. It doesn’t have a max 
or a min range.
To cast a spell, there usually must be a clear Line of Sight between the caster and 
the target. A Line of Sight between one cell and another exists when it is possible 
to trace an imaginary straight line from the center of one cell to the center of the 
other without going through a cell that obstructs Line of Sight. All cells occupied 
by stalls or units block Line of Sight, but the corners of cells never obstruct Line of 
Sight.
DAMAGE TYPES
Elemental Damage
Each attack Spell that is associated with an element (Water, Air, Earth, or Fire) is an 
“elemental spell”. Damage inflicted by these spells is called “elemental damage”. 
By extension, we describe them as Water 
, Air 
, Earth 
 or Fire 
 Spells.
Neutral Damage
Some attack spells are not associated with any element. These are known as 
“neutral spells”. These spells inflict neutral Damage 
. It is never possible to roll 
more than 1 die during a Critical Hit Roll for a neutral spell.
Heals
Healing spells 
 don’t inflict damage, but remove Injury markers from the target. 
The number of Injuries healed is shown instead of damage.
0 Heals or 0 Damage
Some spells inflict 0 damage or heal 0 Injuries. That means that you need to get a 
Critical Hit or use a power, additional spell effect, or Demonic Reward to increase 
this number.
Spells Without Damage
Summoning spells and special spells don’t inflict damage. Therefore, there is an 
empty blank circle where other spells show damage or heals.
AREA OF EFFECT
Some spells affect more than one cell at a time: these are called “Area of Effect” 
spells. Use the normal method to determine the primary target of the Spell: that’s 
the “main target”. Then, look at the diagrams below to see the additional targets 
affected by the spell, according to its Area of Effect.
All targets are determined before paying the cost of the spell. The Area of Effect is 
not an additional effect of the spell.
 Unit That Cast The Spell 
 Primary Target 
 Additional Targets.
ADDITIONAL SPELL EFFECTS
Additional spell effects are written below the spell’s name. Some effects are simply 
described there: just apply the effect as it is written. Additional effects are always 
applied, even if the spell does not cause any damage or if the damage is reduced 
to 0 by the Armor Roll.
The Retreat, Move Closer, Push Back, and Attract additional effects move a 
Krosmaster or a Summons token. When a unit is moved by a spell, they stop if 
they reach an obstacle or the edge of the board:
Retreat X: The caster is moved X cells away from the target of the spell.
Move X Closer: The caster is moved X cells towards the target of the spell.
Push Back X: The target of the spell is moved X cells away from the caster, in the 
same line.
Attract X: The target of the spell is moved X cells towards the caster.
-X MP 
, -X AP 
, -X Range 
: Place X corresponding markers on the target.
+X MP 
, +X AP 
, +X Range 
: Place X corresponding markers on the target.
Steals X MP 
, Steals X AP 
, Steals X Range 
: Place X corresponding -1 
markers on the target and an equal number of corresponding +1 markers on the 
caster.
There cannot be more negative MP or AP markers on a unit than its normal 
corresponding characteristic.
Example: Joris has already taken 6 -1 AP markers. Since his AP characteristic is 6, 
when Marline casts her “No Shame” spell on Joris, she can’t add any more –X AP 
markers to him, and therefore steals 0 AP.
Pierces Armor: This spell’s target throws 1 less die during their Armor Roll.
Steals Health: Once damage has been inflicted, the caster removes Injury markers 
from their card equal to the amount of damage inflicted.
: Water damage is increased by X points.
: Air damage is increased by X points.
: Earth damage is increased by X points.
: Fire damage is increased by X points.
: Neutral damage is increased by X points.
Nothing Less Than Fantastic 4
p y
ll
id
t Wh
thi
Cost in MP + Cost in AP
Deliration
Cost in injuries
 + Cost in AP
All the characters in Krosmaster Arena know how to cast spells—most of the time 
to attack their opponents. All their Spells are summarized on their character 
cards or on the Summons tokens brought into play by the Krosmasters. Some 
Demonic Rewards may occasionally allow them to cast new spells.
The words “target” and “targeted” are often used in the rules regarding spells. 
The spell’s target is the cell the spell is aiming for and, by extension, any figure, 
Summons token, or piece of scenery in that cell. It is also entirely possible that the 
target may be an empty free cell.
In order for a unit to cast a spell, you must check:
- That they have enough MP and AP to cast the spell;
- That the target is within range of the spell;
- That you can trace a Line of Sight from the caster’s cell to the target cell; and
- That there are no powers or effects preventing the casting of the spell.
CASTING AN ATTACK SPELL
Once these four conditions have been met, follow the steps below in this order, 
one at a time:
1. Pay the Cost
Spend as many MP and AP as the spell costs.
2. Additional Effects
If the Spell indicates that there are additional effects (like the “Moves Closer 3” for 
a character targeted by Jahash’s Titanic Leap spell or the additional damage from 
Julith’s Hupperkap spell), apply them now.
3. Critical Hit Roll
Perform a Critical Hit Roll by throwing 1 die (or 2 dice if the active unit has the 
Critical power). Each 
 counts as a success.
4 Armor Roll
The target performs an Armor Roll by throwing 1 die (or 2 dice if the targeted unit 
has the Armor power). Each 
 counts as a success.
5 Calculate damage
Compare the number of Critical Hit Roll successes to the number of Armor 
Roll successes. If the Critical Hit Roll got more successes, the attack damage is 
increased by 1. However, if the Armor roll had more successes, the attack damage 
is reduced by 1. If the two rolls are tied, the attack damage is not changed.
Some powers and effects can also change this value.
6 Place Injury Markers
Place as many Injury markers on the target character card (or on the Summons 
token) as the total damage calculated in the previous step. Don’t forget that a 
character can never have more Injury markers than they have HP.
Example: Julith has 13 HP and 11 Injury markers on her card. If she suffers 3 
damage, you can only place 2 Injury markers on her, because she can’t have more 
than 13 Injury markers on her card. So, she is K.O.’d (see page 20).
7 Pending Effects
Some events can be triggered during an attack. In this case, they are completed 
in this step. If several effects are pending, the active player chooses the order in 
which they are completed, one at a time.
Example: Julith performs a Hupperkap attack that hits both Bakara and a Bomb 
(see page 26). If the Bomb is K.O.’d, it will cast its Explosion spell during this step.
Healing Spells
To cast a healing spell, follow the same procedure except:
4 Armor Roll: The target of a healing spell does not roll for Armor (but there is a 
Critical Hit Roll).
6 Place Injury Markers: Injury markers are not added, but are removed from the 
healed character. Lilotte’s 30 Licks spell is an example of a healing spell.
CASTING A SPELL
 Hammer 
Breath 
Staff 
Cross 
Shovel 
Square 
Hand 

SUMMONS TOKENS
POWERS
SCENERY
Some Krosmasters base their combat technique on their summoning spells. 
They can build mechanisms or make fantastic creatures appear in the Arena 
to attack their opponents.
Summons tokens are brought into play using summoning spells. The Summons 
can be mechanisms or characters (in this case, they are known as Mobs).
None of the Summons can block Line of Sight, unless they have the Obstructing 
power.
MOB TOKENS
Mob tokens are characters. These summoned creatures have HP and MP. Most of 
the time, they also have AP and a spell, and sometimes they even have powers.
A Mob is placed in the Timeline and plays its turn right after the turn of the 
Krosmaster who brought it into play. If a Krosmaster has summoned several Mob 
tokens, the active player chooses in which order they play, after the Krosmaster’s 
turn.
Mob tokens do not have Levels, so you won’t win any GG if you K.O. them.
The summoned creature represented by a Mob token can only spend MP and AP 
to move and cast their own spells.
MECHANISM TOKENS
None of the mechanism Summons have MP, and they are all unable to Lock, but 
other than that, it’s a rather large family: bombs, traps, turrets, etc.
Amongst all these mechanisms, two families have rules which only apply to 
them:
BOMB TOKENS
A bomb casts its Explosion spell when it is K.O.’d. At the start of the summoning 
Krosmaster’s turn, a bomb automatically takes one Injury due to its Wear and 
Tear power, and immediately casts its Explosion spell.
TRAP TOKENS
A trap does not have HP, so it can’t be K.O.’d from receiving Injuries. The 
weirdest thing about traps, though, is that the cell on which they are placed is 
still considered to be a free cell! This allows its victims to unwittingly fall right 
into the...er, trap.
A trap casts its Click spell when any unit moves into its cell, then the trap is 
K.O.’d. All traps have the Untouchable power, and therefore cannot be moved.
There can only be on trap on each cell.
STELE TRAPS
A stele trap is very odd. It has health points, but there’s only one way it can 
receive Injury markers:
When a Krosmaster moves or is moved onto a stele trap’s cell, you place 1 Injury 
marker on the stele.
Just like a trap, a stele is Untouchable and the cell on which it is located is 
considered to be a free cell.
Piège.
Piège.
Piè
Zone: Carré. -1 - 1
P TOKENS
Zone: Carré. -1
Explosion
- 1
Zone: 
Zone: Carré
Carré. -1
Explosion
Ex
Exp
Explplolos
osisioion
Tou
TRAP TOKENS
Zone: Carré.
Toupiti. Critique.
piti. Critique.
Zone: Carré.
Zone: Carré. 1
Tou
Many Krosmasters and some Summons have extraordinary abilities that can 
modify the game rules. These are known as powers.
A power is not a spell, even though the effects are sometimes similar. A unit who 
already has one power can’t gain an additional power of the same name.
KROSMASTER ARENA POWERS
Critical: This unit rolls 1 additional die on a Critical Hit Roll.
Armor: This unit rolls 1 additional die on an Armor Roll.
Lock: This unit rolls 1 additional die on a Lock Roll.
Dodge: This unit rolls 1 additional die on a Dodge Roll.
: Damage inflicted on this unit by a Water spell 
: Damage inflicted on this unit by an Air spell 
: Damage inflicted on this unit by an Earth spell 
: Damage inflicted on this unit by a Fire spell 
Chance 
, Agility 
 :
When a unit with one of these powers casts a corresponding elemental spell, 
they roll 1 additional die for the Critical Hit Roll. When they are the target of a 
corresponding elemental spell, they roll 1 additional die for the Armor Roll.
Crafter: When this Krosmaster buys the first Demonic Reward of their turn, this 
action costs them 0 AP and they get a discount for that Demonic Reward: They 
only pay 5 Kamas for a Jade Reward or 7 Kamas for a Silver Reward.
Prospecting: When any enemy Krosmaster is K.O.’d, this unit takes 1 Kama from 
the reserve and adds it to your stock.
Untouchable: This unit can’t be moved by and can’t receive any AP 
, MP 
, or 
Range 
 markers from any effect that is not listed on their own card.
Itty-Bitty: This unit is not affected by Locking rules: they do not Lock and cannot 
be Locked.
Loot X: When this unit is K.O.’d by an opponent, they take X Kamas from the 
reserve and add them to their stock.
Farmer: When this Krosmaster collects at least 1 Kama during their turn, at the 
end of their turn you receive 1 additional Kama from the reserve and add it to 
your stock.
Wear and Tear: A Summons with this power takes 1 Injury at the start of its 
summoner’s turn.
OTHER KROSMASTER AND SUMMONS POWERS
Some figures from the Krosmaster Collection have different powers:
Wisdom: When a Krosmaster with this power K.O.’s an enemy Krosmaster, you 
take 1 additional GG 
. When a Krosmaster with this power is K.O.’d by an 
enemy Krosmaster, your opponent takes 1 additional GG 
Obstructing: This power, reserved for Summons, means that they can block Line 
of Sight.
Profanation: A unit with this power can’t take injuries from spells or effects. 
However, each time a Krosmaster is moved under this Summons, they take an 
Injury marker.
And that’s not all! The Krosmaster universe is vast, and with over 100 figures, 
you still have lots of incredible powers left to discover. The majority of them will 
be described on their own card.
When the Demons of the Hours and Minutes created the Arena you’re discovering, 
they tried to copy the ambiance of the Divine Bonta. So, they created Arenas 
that are the spitting image of the town’s marketplaces.
Scenery is placed on the board at the start of the game. Characters are not 
scenery. All scenery has the Untouchable power.
Three types of scenery are provided in Krosmaster Arena: stalls, crates, and bags. 
Each type of scenery has its own rules:
BAGS
Bags—which are surely filled with incredible merchandise—have a tendency to 
be left all over the marketplace. Bags are obstacles, so the cells on which bags 
are found are impassable. However, bags do not block Line of Sight.
STALLS
As any tourist will tell you, these little shops are the heart of the market. Bonta 
just isn’t Bonta without its stalls. Stalls are obstacles, so a cell occupied by a stall 
is impassable. Their large size may obstruct shooters: stalls block Line of Sight.
CRATES
These crates, filled with exotic merchandise (probably), are not obstacles. A cell 
that only contains a crate is still considered to be a free cell. A crate does not 
block Line of Sight.
The max ranges of a unit’s spells are increased by 1 cell when they are standing 
on a crate.
- Appendix
Appendix -
n a crate.

BOOSTS
A Boost is an immediate advantage. Once revealed, 
a Boost token is used up: it provides the Krosmaster 
using it with its advantage, and is then removed 
from the game (return the Boost token to the box). 
As long as it is face-down, a Boost token does not 
have any effect.
THE BUFFS
A Buff is a temporary bonus. When a Krosmaster 
uses a Buff marker, turn it face up on their character 
card. They benefit from the effect of the Buff until 
the start of their next turn. Then, remove the Buff 
marker from the game and put it back in the box.
- APPENDIX
APPENDIX -
DEMONIC REWARDS
This Demonic Reward comes in 4 copies, so you know 
it’s popular!
When a Krosmaster uses a Multi-slap, place 1 Injury 
marker on their card. The damage inflicted by the next 
elemental attack spell they cast is increased by 1 point. 
A Multi-slap cannot increase neutral damage.
When a Krosmaster uses the E.P.O.tion, they 
immediately gain 3 AP.
When a Krosmaster uses the Red Ball, they immediately 
gain 2 MP.
When a Krosmaster uses Woolly Punch, they increase 
the damage dealt for the next spell they cast this turn 
by 2 points, if this spell is a Close Combat elemental 
spell (
). Wooly Punch does not increase neutral 
damage.
When a Krosmaster uses the Multi-slap XL, place 3 
Injury markers on their card. The damage inflicted 
by the next elemental attack spell they cast this turn 
is increased by 2 points. The Multi-slap XL does not 
increase neutral damage.
When a Krosmaster uses Pink Fleeflee, he summons a 
Pink Fleeflee into play. Place the Pink Fleeflee marker on 
an adjacent free cell. From now on, the Pink Fleeflee takes 
its turn right after the character who summoned it. If the 
Krosmaster who summoned it is K.O.’d, the Pink Fleeflee 
is removed from the board, just like a normal Summons.
card, any Krosmaster in an adjacent cell cannot activate 
any Demonic Rewards. In addition, the Krosmaster who 
owns the Guard Outfit gains the Lock power.
A Krosmaster carrying this Weapon can cast a new 
Close Combat spell: Attacking with the Bantarian 
Sceptre costs 4 AP and deals 2 Water damage to every 
character in the “Shovel” Area of Effect. A character can 
only attack with the Bontarian Sceptre once per turn.
A Krosmaster who carries this Weapon can cast a new 
Close Combat spell: Attacking with the Elrazer Shovel 
costs 4 AP and deals 2 Air damage with the Pierces 
Armor effect to every character in the “Shovel” Area 
of Effect. A character can only attack with the Elrazer 
Shovel once per turn.
As long as the Ebony Dofus marker is face up on a 
Krosmaster’s card, their AP and MP characteristics are 
increased by 1 point each.
card, their AP characteristic is increased by 1 and they 
gain the Crafter and Prospecting powers.
A Krosmaster who has revealed this Technique pays 1 
less AP to cast Punch. Also, the range of their Punch 
becomes 1 to 4 cells in a straight line. Cumulative with 
other Techniques.
card, their AP characteristic is increased by 2 points.
them lose any remaining MP they have while increasing 
the damage by +1 
main
. Cumulative with other Techniques.
As long as the Ivory Dofus marker is face up on a 
Krosmaster’s card, their AP characteristic is increased 
by 1 and the max range of all variable range spells they 
can cast is increased by 1 cell.
card, their AP and HP characteristics are increased by 1 
and they gain the Armor power.
AP to cast Punch. Also, their Punch covers a “Breath” Area 
of Effect. Cumulative with other Techniques.
As long as this Pet marker is face up on a Krosmaster’s 
card, their MP characteristic is increased by 1 and their 
HP characteristic is increased by 2. 
AP to cast Punch. Also, their Punch will make both the 
target and the caster lose -1 AP: Place a -1 
mak
 marker on 
each of them. Cumulative with other Techniques. 
A Krosmaster carrying this Weapon can cast a new spell. 
Casting this spell costs 3 AP. It summons a Terrabomb 
into play in the targeted free cell. A Krosmaster can only 
control 2 Terrabombs at a time.
them gain 1 MP, which can only be used during this turn. 
Cumulative with other Techniques.
Return of the Jet Eye is a single-use spell. To cast it, 
the Krosmaster chooses a target 2 to 4 cells away in a 
straight line and spends 2 AP. It Attracts the targeted 
unit 1 cell. This does not trigger a Lock or Dodge roll.
As long as the Perfect Block marker is on a Krosmaster’s 
card, adjacent enemy characters cannot spend MP to 
leave Close Combat.
A Krosmaster carrying this Weapon can cast a new 
spell with a range of 1 to 6 cells. Attacking with the 
1001 Claw’chaku costs 2 AP and 1 MP. It deals 1 neutral 
damage. A character can only attack each target once 
per turn with this spell.
AP to cast Punch. Also, their Punch heals them by 1 Injury 
while dealing damage to their target. Cumulative with 
other Techniques.
card, their HP characteristic is increased by 5 points.
AP to cast Punch. Also, their Punch steals 1 
 from each 
of the targets affected. Cumulative with other Techniques.
A Krosmaster carrying this Weapon can cast a new spell 
with a range of 2 to 4 cells. Attacking with the Shame 
Bow costs 4 AP and deals 2 Fire damage. A character 
can only attack with the Shame Bow once per turn.
them gain 1 AP, which can only be used during this turn. 
Cumulative with other Techniques.
As long as the Perfect Dodge is on a Krosmaster’s card, 
it is automatically assumed that this Krosmaster is 
more successful than their opponents at Lock Rolls, and 
they are not affected by an opponent who has activated 
Perfect Block.
As long as the Fecadification marker is on a Krosmaster’s 
card, they gain the following powers: Resistance 
gain
, Resistance 
wing 
, Resistance 
sista
As a result, they suffer 1 less damage when they are the 
target of any elemental spell. Fecadification is useless 
against neutral damage, healing, or additional spell 
effects.
Jet Eye Master is a single-use spell. To cast it, the 
Krosmaster chooses a target 1 to 2 cells away in a line 
and spends 2 AP. This Pushes the target unit 2 cells 
away. This does not trigger a Lock or Dodge roll.
The effects of these 4 Demonic Rewards are similar: As long as one of 
these Buff markers is on your Krosmaster’s card, they benefit from the two 
following effects:
Attack spells of the corresponding elements (Water, Air, Earth, 
or Fire) they cast deal 1 extra damage.
They gain the power of Resistance to the associated element 
(Water, Air, Earth, or Fire). They suffer 1 less damage when they are the 
target of a spell from that element.
The effects of these Demonic Rewards are similar. As long as one of these 
Pet markers is on your Krosmaster’s card, they benefit from the two following 
effects:
They gain the Prospecting power, so when any enemy Krosmaster 
is K.O.’d, you take a Kama from the reserve and add it to their stock.
They gain a power associated with an element (Chance 
 Agility 
): They roll an additional die when 
they attack with a spell or defend against a spell of that element.
Lightning Bolt is a single-use spell. To cast it, the 
Krosmaster chooses a target 2 to 5 cells away and 
spends 1 AP. Lightning Bolt inflicts 1 neutral damage.
Muddle is a single-use spell. To cast it, the Krosmaster 
chooses a target 2 to 5 cells away and spends 2 AP. 
Muddle deals no damage, but the target suffers a 
penalty of -3 AP: place 3 -1 
, bu
Crustyness is a single-use spell. To cast it, the Krosmaster 
chooses a target 2 to 4 cells away and spends 2 AP. 
Crustyness deals no damage, but the target suffers a 
penalty of -3 MP: Place 3 -1 
e, b
When your Krosmaster uses a Bulbous Potion, you can 
remove up to 3 Injury markers from their card.
When your Krosmaster uses a Stiff Pahoa, you must 
choose one of the following three advantages: Either they 
immediately gain 1 AP, they immediately gain 1 MP, or you 
can remove up to 2 Injury markers from their card.
The effects of these 4 Demonic Rewards are similar: A Krosmaster who 
uses one of these Boosts increases the damage dealt by their next spell 
this turn by 1 point.
Warning! If the spell is also a Close Combat spell (
) of the same 
element as the Boost, the damage is increased by 2 points instead!
These Demonic Rewards do not increase neutral damage.
The effects of these 8 Demonic Rewards are similar. As long as one of 
these Buff markers is on your Krosmaster’s card, they benefit from the 
two following effects:
Attack spells of the corresponding element (Water, Air, Earth, 
or Fire) they cast deal 1 additional damage.
They gain a power associated with another element (Chance 
, Agility 
): They roll an additional 
die when they attack with a spell or defend against a spell of that 
element.
im
In
is
is
le
ta
R
u
le
B
R
ta
Je
L
re
im
EQUIPMENT
Equipment is a permanent bonus. It takes effect as 
soon as the Demonic Reward marker is turned face 
up, and remains in play until the end of the game or 
until the Krosmaster carrying the Demonic Reward 
is K.O.’d.
If the Equipment grants an AP or MP bonus, the 
corresponding characteristic value is increased. 
This increase is effective as soon as the Equipment 
marker is turned face up. The Krosmaster can, 
therefore, spend the additional AP or MP in the 
same turn that they unveiled their equipment.
Once revealed, you cannot remove an Equipment 
marker to replace it with another one!
There are 5 types of equipment:
Weapons
of e
, which give their carrier a 
new spell;
Outfits
which 
give 
characteristic 
bonuses or additional powers.
Pets
ddit
which 
offer 
powers 
characteristic bonuses.
Dofus
bon
, symbols of power in the World 
of Twelve!
A Krosmaster can only have one piece of Equipment 
from each category on their card. If a Krosmaster 
already owns an equipment of this type, they 
cannot reveal another marker of the same type.
There is one special type of Equipment: 
Grampy’s library hides many wonders. Among them 
are ancient books that can teach the reader new 
Techniques, thought to be lost centuries ago! The 
advantages of these Techniques are special, and 
they are memorized once the book is read.
Techniques
like other Equipment, remain on the 
character once activated, but there are 4 things that 
distinguish Techniques from other Equipment:
Each Technique modifies the Punch spell (the 
spell that all Krosmasters know) by adding an effect.
Each learned Technique reduces the AP cost 
of Punch by 1 AP, down to a minimum of 0 AP.
A Krosmaster is not limited to only 1 Technique.
Finally, once the Technique is activated, it 
no longer counts against that Krosmaster’s limited 
number of Demonic Rewards. You can still only activate 
one Demonic Reward on each Krosmaster per turn.
This means that a Krosmaster can know several 
Techniques at the same time, and can combine the 
effects of several Techniques. For example, a Level 1 
Krosmaster could have 3 Techniques active at once, as 
well as having 1 Demonic Reward equipped.

- APPENDIX
APPENDIX -
ADVANCED RULES 
F.A.Q.
My Krosmaster has the Armor power and is using the Elite Outfit, which 
gives +1 AP and +1 HP as well as the Armor power. Does that mean my 
character now throws 3 dice during Armor Rolls?
NO, because a character can never benefit from the same power more 
than once. The Krosmaster does benefit from the additional AP and HP, 
but the Armor power given by the Elite Outfit is of no use to them, as they 
already have the Armor power.
My Krosmaster has the Armor power and suffers 2 damage with the 
Pierces Armor effect. Can I make an Armor Roll?
YES, but with just the one die.
Even if he has the Armor power several times?
YES, because a character can never benefit from the same power multiple 
times.
I already have an Outfit and a Weapon activated on Lilotte, who is Level 
2. Can I also give her a Technique?
NO. Techniques do occupy a Demonic Reward slot until they are revealed. 
Therefore, since Lilotte already has the 2 Demonic Rewards allowed by 
her Level 2 status, she cannot benefit from any further Demonic Rewards.
But what if I do the opposite? I have revealed an Outfit and a Technique, 
can I assign another Demonic Reward to Lilotte?
YES. Once a Technique has been revealed, it no longer takes up a Demonic 
Reward slot. Therefore, Lilotte is considered to have only one slot taken 
up: by the Outfit.
My Krosmaster has 3 MP, 12 HP, and 6 AP, but already has 3 -1 MP 
markers on his card. My opponent is using the Crustyness Demonic 
Reward on him. Do I go down to -4 MP?
NO. A unit can’t have more markers—MP or AP—than their corresponding 
characteristics, just like HP and Injury markers. In this case, Crustyness 
will have no effect.
My Grampy summoned his Fleeflee. If my opponent K.O.’s Grampy, does 
Fleeflee stay in play?
NO. Summons are removed from the board when the Krosmaster who 
summoned them is K.O.’d.
My Khan Kharkass has 8 HP and has already suffered 6 Injuries. Can 
he use his “Multi Slap XL” Demonic Reward to increase the damage of 
his next spell?
YES, but, he will suffer 3 damage and be K.O.’d before he can cast his spell. 
If he had 4 Injuries or less, he could have used “Multi-slap XL” effectively.
Scoreur has 5 AP and 8 HP, but has already suffered 7 Injuries. Can he 
cast his “Scorification” spell, which costs 2 Injuries and 5 AP?
NO. Since he can’t place the 2 Injury markers from the spell cost on his 
card, he can’t cast the spell. If he had only suffered 6 Injuries, he could 
have cast it—he would have been K.O.’d, but the spell would have taken 
effect.
The additional effects Retreat, Push Back, Attract, and Move Closer move 
characters and Summons tokens. Does this create a Lock situation, with 
a Lock Roll and Dodge Roll?
NO, the Lock rule only applies when a character spends 1 MP to move and 
leaves a cell adjacent to one or more enemies.
I play with 2 Chafer Archers on my team. If one of them casts the 
“Ranged Shot” spell, which says “This turn, all of CHAFER ARCHER’s 
spells gain +2 max Range, but it loses all its MP”, does this affect both 
of my characters named CHAFER ARCHER?
NO. When a character’s card refers to its own name, only the active 
character is affected.
My Deminoboule casts the Dummy Packet spell with the additional 
effect of “Moves 2 closer”. Can he go through impassable cells?
NO. The special move is in a line. If it is interrupted by an impassable cell, 
Deminoboule must stop in front of it.
And if there is a trap on the cells he travels over?
The trap only triggers if Deminoboule ends his special move on the trap’s 
cell, once his Dummy Packet spell is fully completed.
If a spell’s additional effect shows +X MP, +X AP, Steals X MP, or Steals X 
AP, does my character receive those MP or AP immediately?
NO. Those MP and AP gains are shown by markers placed on your card. 
At the start of the character’s next turn, those markers are discarded and 
that is when you receive the MP and AP. When the gain is immediate, it 
will say so on the card.
In the Tutorial, I was not given the option of choosing the face of my 
dice before I make them count, but in the rules it says I can. Which one 
should I follow?
In the Tutorial, some rules are simplified to help you become familiar 
with the game more easily. This is one of those rules. The Rule Book, 
Appendices, and Game Help always take precedence over the Tutorial in 
this guide.
RULES FOR 4 PLAYERS
Krosmaster Arena can be played with 4 players instead of 2, either every person 
for themselves or 2 against 2. The rules for 4 players are the same as the rules 
for 2, with just a couple of small exceptions:
EVERYONE FOR THEMSELVES
Composition of the teams: Each player plays with 2 Krosmasters. Players 
decide on a method for creating their teams. All players’ teams must have the 
same overall Level.
Initiative: The players calculate their total Initiative. The player with the highest 
total is Player 1, and the others are 2, 3, and 4 according to the descending order 
of their total Initiative. The players sit clockwise around the table. They play in 
this order: 1 – 2 – 3 – 4.
Setting up the Board: Player 4 chooses the board. Player 1 decides which 
direction they would like the board to face.
Gallons of Glory: Place 3 Wild GG near the board. Each player starts with 3 GG. 
When a character is K.O.’d, its controller gives GG equal to the character’s level 
to the K.O.’ing player. A player without any GG is not necessarily eliminated, as 
long as they still have a figure in play.
A player who K.O.’s another player’s last remaining Krosmaster takes all their 
remaining GG.
Starting: According to the turn order, each player places their figures in the 
Arena on the starting cells in their area. These areas are shown below: they are 
different on the different game boards.
Tension Rolls: If doubles are rolled, the active player choose one opponent to 
lose 1 GG, and this opponent then chooses another player to lose 1 GG. This may 
be the active player, but it doesn’t have to be.
2 AGAINST 2
Same rules as Free-For-All, with the following changes:
Aim of the Game: When the Wild GG is gone, be the last team with any GG 
left. If a player and their partner are the only ones who have any figures left in 
the Arena, they also win.
Initiative: The players calculate their total Initiative. The player with the highest 
total becomes player 1, and their partner is player 3. The player from the other 
team with the highest Initiative total becomes player 2 and their partner is 
player 4.
CUSTOMIZABLE TEAMS
One of the greatest pleasures of the Krosmaster Arena is the ability to create 
your own team, made up of characters from all the existing Krosmasters. Collect 
Krosmaster figures and build your dream team!
CHOOSING YOUR CHARACTERS
You can combine any characters you want, as long as you meet the following 
criteria:
Your team must include between 3 and 8 Krosmasters.
A Krosmaster whose name is written in gold lettering on their card is 
a Unique Hero. This hero can only appear in your team once, but you can recruit 
several different Unique Heroes.
Each Krosmaster whose name is written in white letters can appear in 
your team a maximum of two times.
A Krosmaster whose name is written in black letters can appear up to 
three times maximum in your team.
A Krosmaster with the Boss trait (Jahash, for example) can’t be in your 
team if you already have another Krosmaster with the Boss trait.
These limitations apply to each player. You and your opponent can both play 
perfectly well with two identical teams.
CUSTOM TEAMS FOR 4-PLAYER GAMES
Each player’s team must be composed of 1 to 4 Krosmasters with a combined 
total of Level 6.
DISTINGUISHING FEATURES
If you decide to play several versions of the same character, or if two players have 
chosen to have the same character on their teams, use the stickers provided in 
the box to tell the difference between them.
REFERRING TO A NAME
When a Krosmaster’s name is referred to in UPPER CASE in one of their own 
spells or powers, this only refers to that Krosmaster themself, and not any other 
Krosmasters with the same name.
INITIATIVE
To decide who goes first if the total Initiative of the players is identical, compare 
the highest Initiative value of the characters who make up each team, then the 
second highest if there’s another draw, etc. If there is a perfect draw, choose 
heads or tails.
TIMELINE
The first player starts by creating their Timeline, then their opponent does the 
same. When a player is creating their Timeline, if several characters from your 
team have the same Initiative score, you must choose the order in which your 
characters will be activated. You must then stick to this Timeline until the end 
of the game.
BONTA I
BONTA II
Player 1
Player 2
Player 3
Player 4
CREDITS : From an original idea by Tot - Products Team: Romain Caterdjan, Pierre-Henri Dupont, Isabelle Vandamme. - Game Design: Matthieu Berthier - Lead Graphic Design: Alexandre Papet - 
Character Design: Edouard Guiton - 2D Team: Romain Libersa, Vincent Lombard. - Corporate Identity: Aisk Cover Illustration: Edouard Guiton - CMON EDITION - Production: Thiago Aranha, 
Guilherme Goulart, Carolina Negrão, Sergio Roma and Paulo Shinji Rules Editing: William Niebling Publisher: David Preti - THANKS: The community that makes this game even more fantastic, Murat 
Celebi to have created this game, The « Cuir & Moustache » team for all their contributions, Jessica Gally for her support all these years, Dominique Gaboriaud, Lucie Cousinou, Nicolas Degouy, Sebastien 
Darras, Charles Bossart, Henry Molliné and everyone making that job so pleasant.

- GAME HELP
1. START OF THE TURN (NEW ACTIVE PLAYER)
Tension Roll (2 dice)
Reroll (optional, 1 die)
Inspiration (gain powers)
Refunds! (gain Kama)
2. UNIT TURNS (TIMELINE ORDER, ONE BY ONE)
2.1 PRELIMINARY PHASE
 
- Buff suppression, triggered effects
2.2 ACTIVATION PHASE
 
- Spend MP and AP
2.3 END OF ACTIVATION PHASE
 
- Triggered effects, next character
3. END OF TURN
Change active player
PRE-REQUESITES
Check the cost
Check the range
Check the Line of Sight
Make sure that no effects prevent you from casting it (from Krosmaster 
Extensions)
1 PAY THE COST
2 ADDITIONAL EFFECTS
3 CRITICAL HIT ROLL (attack and healing spells only)
4 ARMOR ROLL (attack spells only)
5 CALCULATE DAMAGE (see below)
6 INJURIES (attack and healing spells only)
7 PENDING EFFECTS (Steals Life, for example)
Movement 
 
 
 
Move one cell..................................................................
Action
Casting Spells.................................................................
Actions Reserves to Krosmasters 
Pick up a Kama..............................................................
Buy a GG.........................................................................
 GRANITE Demonic Reward............................
 Jade Demonic Reward....................................
 SILVER Demonic Reward................................
Reveal a Demonic Reward.............................................
Punch Something..........................................................
1 MP
Depending on the Spell
1 AP
1 AP (+12 Kamas)
1 AP (+3 Kamas)
1 AP (+6 Kamas)
1 AP (+9 Kamas)
0 AP (one per turn)
5 AP (-1 AP per Technique. 
see Page 29)
SPENDING MP AND AP
REMINDER
CASTING A SPELL
AREA OF EFFECT ZONES
Thanks to your unique code, you can activate your figures and 
make them fight other players online! Figures from other 
products also contain a unique code that you can use to 
unlock them! The world of Krosmasters is vast. Will you 
become the Master of the Krosmoz?
www.KROSMASTER.com
2643-LIV-ANG
Imagine that all cells are perfectly square.
A Line of Sight is drawn from the center of one cell to the center of another.
It must not pass through any cell that blocks Line of Sight (stalls, characters, etc.).
Clear Line of Sight.
No Line of Sight.
NAME
MOVEMENT
Free Cell 
Impassable 
Does Not Block 
Blocks 
UNTOUCHABLE
Is Untouchable 
Is Not Untouchable 
Crate
 
Bag
Stall
 
Krosmaster
Mob Token
Bomb Token
Trap / Stele 
Token
Kama Token
 Scenery 
 Character
 Other 
Hammer Zone
Breath Zone
Staff Zone
Shovel Zone
Cross Zone
Square Zone
Hand Zone
1 - 8